++ Anchors

Anchors allow to define a particular position within any hyperlinked page, such as a wiki page or any HTML page.
Given such anchor, a jump to that specific position may be invoked from anywhere else using an appropiate link.

Anchors for wiki pages are supported in both, edit and preview mode.
In exported HTML pages, anchors are supported using standard HTML-Syntax ("#...").


+++ Defining an Anchor

Anchors are defined with the special anchor tag "anchor:", followed by the name of that anchor, as follows:

anchor: here

The anchor tag must be on a separate line by itself, no other text before or after it. After "anchor:" you give the anchor its name.

This name of the anchor must consist only of letters A to Z (upper or lowercase), digits and underscore. It must not contain spaces, other special characters or non-English characters.

And such name of an anchor should be unique within the page in order to avoid ambiguities.


+++ Hyperlinking to an Anchor

In order to go to a particular anchor in a wiki word, append a ! and the anchor name to the wiki word (non-camelcase wiki words must be put in brackets), e.g.:

[Anchors]!here

or

TextFormatting!html

Clicking on the link jumps to the page, and moves the cursor to the position following that anchor tag.


+++ Remarks

    * Anchors are case-sensitive, therefore "here" and "Here" are
      different anchors.
    * The anchor tags are invisible in HTML preview and export.

See also [Footnotes].

