[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Anchor

An Anchor allows You to define a particular position within any hyper
linked page, such as a WikiPage or any HtmlPage. Given such an
anchor, a jump to that specific position may be invoked from anywhere
else using an appropriate link.

Anchors for WikiPages are supported in both, in [Edit mode] and in [Preview mode).
In exported HtmlPages, anchors are supported using standard HtmlSyntax ("#...").


++ Defining an Anchor and its name

Anchors are defined with the special anchor tag "anchor:", followed by the name of that anchor, as follows:

anchor: here

The anchor tag must be on a separate line by itself, no other text before or after it.

After "anchor:" you give the anchor its name.

Such name of an anchor must consist solely of:
	* letters A to Z (upper or lowercase), 
	* digits and 
	* underscore.

The name of an anchor must *not* contain spaces, nor any other special or non-English character(s).

Naturally, such name of an anchor should be unique within the page in order to avoid ambiguities.


++ Hyperlinking to an Anchor

In order to link to a particular anchor in a WikiPage, append an
exclamation mark ("!") and the name of the anchor name to the
WikiWord. (Note: Non-CamelCase WikiWords must be put in brackets, as
always.)

Example:

[Anchor]!here

or

TextFormatting!html

Doubleclick on such link in order to jump to the page, and having the cursor moved to the position following that anchor tag.


++ Remarks

    * Anchors are case-sensitive. Thus, "here" and "Here" are different anchors.
    * The anchor tags are invisible in [HTML preview] and [HTML export].

See also [Footnotes].


[:page:PageFooter][alias:Anchors; PageAnchor; PageAnchors; WikiPageAnchor; WikiPageAnchors]