[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Bulleted Lists

++ Bulletpoint List (Unnumbered)
To start a simple bulleted list, indent a new line with a tabulator.
After the tabulator type an asterisk "\*". And press [Space].
Finally, type the text of Your ListItem.

See ExampleListBulletPoint.


++ Numbered List
To start a *numbered* bulleted list, indent a new line with a tabulator.
After the tabulator type a number followed by a period. And press [Space].
Finally, type the text of Your ListItem.

See ExampleListNumbered


++ RelatedOptions

+++++ auto-bullets
You can switch off the automatic generation of bullets/numbers with the "auto-bullets" option in the "Editor" menu.

+++++ auto-indent
You can also switch off the automatic indentation with "auto-indent" option:

    If this line is indented and you press enter, next will be as well.

+++++ auto-unbullets
If a line has a "lonely" bullet or number on it and you press enter, the bullet is removed:

    * Put your cursor at the end of this line and press enter *twice*.

You can switch off this behavior as well in "Options" dialog, page "Editor", option "Auto-unbullets".


++ Change Indentation

You have written a list already. Now You want to indent it further?

Select the list (at least two lines must be selected!) and press the [Tab key] .

You want to reduce the indentation? Press [Shift-Tab] instead.


++ Caution: Indent your list! 

Make sure to indent your list! 
Otherwise the text following is interpreted as part of the list and therefore get's indented in the HTML view.
todo.help: still valid?


Example (switch to preview to see the problem):


* Part
* of list


After the list.


[:page:PageFooter]