++ Cascading style sheets

Cascading style sheets (in short: CSS) are a way to control the rendering of an HTML file in great detail. When exporting HTML from WikidPad, certain CSS files are copied to the export directory and referenced by the generated HTML page(s). They are also respected by the external previews, the internal preview ignores them due to technical limitations.

WikidPad searches in the following places for CSS files to copy and reference:

   * File "appbase.css" in WikidPad installation directory, copied as
     "appbase.css". You should not modify it as it is overwritten at
     each update of WikidPad (but read it to see provided classes)
   * File "wikistyle.css" in install subdirectory "export", copied as "admbase.css"
   * File "wikistyle.css" in subdirectory ".WikidPadGlobals" or
     "WikidPadGlobals" of user-specific configuration directory, copied
     as "userbase.css"
   * File "wikistyle.css" in subdirectory "data" of wiki directory,
     copied as "wikistyle.css"


Settings in a file overwrite same settings in files above it.


For preview, there are three additional files taken into account (if you want the preview to look differently).

These files overwrite settings in the files above.

   * File "wikipreview.css" in install subdirectory "export"
   * File "wikipreview.css" in subdirectory ".WikidPadGlobals" or
     "WikidPadGlobals" of user-specific configuration directory
   * File "wikipreview.css" in subdirectory "data" of wiki directory



To find your user-specific configuration directory see "Help" menu -> "About" and scroll to the end to find out where it is.

+++ The class "wikidpad"

All HTML elements generated by WikidPad have the class "wikidpad" (even if they also have another class) so you can modify the CSS for all WikidPad-generated elements in CSS in contrast to elements you entered directly into a wiki page.


[alias: CSS]
