++ Change File Suffix

*USE THIS AT YOUR OWN RISK!!!*  *USE THIS AT YOUR OWN RISK!!!*

Normally the page files in the "data" directory of a "Original Gadfly" or "Original Sqlite" wiki have the suffix ".wiki". You can change this if you really need to.

Currently there is no support for automatic renaming of existing page files. If necessary, a script will be published to do that.


Ensure that you have *not* opened with WikidPad the wiki you want to modify now.

To change the suffix open the file with suffix .wiki in the wiki directory (*above* the "data" directory) with a text editor. This is the configuration file of the wiki (its suffix can't be changed). In this file you will find a line:

[main]

Somewhere below this line, there could be a line starting with

db_pagefile_suffix=

If it isn't there, add it.

After the equal sign there should be the suffix of the page files including the separating dot, so the default line would be:

db_pagefile_suffix=.wiki



    * If you e.g. want .txt files instead, use:

      db_pagefile_suffix=.txt

    * If you want no ending at all (not even the dot), write:

      db_pagefile_suffix=

      without anything after '='

    * To go back to the default ".wiki" files, you can also delete the line completely


Now you can save and close the configuration file. After that you should somehow rename the existing page files.
Then you should be able to open the wiki in WikidPad.


Once again:

*USE THIS AT YOUR OWN RISK!!!*  *USE THIS AT YOUR OWN RISK!!!*
