++ Command Line Support

+++ Old form

You can have up to two command line parameters, without leading '-'
which have the following meaning:

*First parameter* can be a path to a .wiki file (either a text file with
wiki page content (this page is opened then) or the wiki configuration
file). Instead of a path it can also be an URL with wiki: protocol

*Second parameter* can be the name of a wiki word to open, if not
specified in the first parameter.


+++ New form

You can specify switches and/or parameters on the command line where
the names of the switches either consist of a '-' and a character
(short form, e.g. "-h") or begin with two dashes and a name (long
form, e.g. "--help").

Some switches also take a parameter which must follow the switch on
the command line.

The following list of switches shows the short form (not present for
all options), the long form and (if necessary) the meaning of the
parameter in angle brackets:


++++ General

*-h, --help*
Shows a message box with a short overview of available switches.

*-w, --wiki  <wiki path>*
Set the wiki to open on startup (same as first parameter of old form).

*-p, --page <page name>*
Set the page to open on startup (same as second parameter of old form). You can repeat this parameter multiple times to open multiple tabs.

*--rebuild*
Rebuild the opened wiki completely.

*--update-ext*
Update externally modified files only (see [WikiMaintenance#++ Update ext. modif. wiki files]).

*--no-recent*
Do not record opened wikis in recently opened wikis list found in menu "Wiki" as submenu "Recent"

*--preview*
If no pages are given, all opened pages from previous session are opened in preview mode. Otherwise all pages mentioned on command line after that option are opened in preview mode.

*--editor*
Same as --preview but opens in text editor mode. You can use both switches in conjunction, e.g.

-p Page1 --preview -p Page2 -p Page3 --editor -p Page4

opens Page1 in editor mode (editor is the default mode), Page2 and Page3 are opened as preview, Page4 in editor mode again

*-x, --exit*
Exit immediately after command line actions were completed.


++++ Exporting

The following three must all be specified if you want to export
something, the fourth (--export-compfn) is optional:

*--export-what <what>*
Choose if you want to export *page*, *subtree* or *wiki*.

*--export-type <type>*
Tag of the export type. Currently this can be:

    * html_single: A single wiki page per HTML file
    * html_multi: Multiple wiki pages in one HTML file
    * raw_files: Set of \*.wiki files in UTF-8 format with BOM

Attention: In 1.9 the meaning of "html_single" and "html_multi"
were reversed!

*--export-dest <destination path>*
Path of destination directory for export.


*--export-compfn*
Use compatible filenames on export.

*--export-saved <name of saved export>*
Instead of the first three you can also use this to run a previously saved export profile

*--continuous-export-saved <name of saved export>*
Use this to start a continuous export when starting WikidPad


++++ Special

*--deleteconfig*
If this is the only switch on the command line, the program deletes
(*without further request!*) the configuration files which are the
main "WikidPad.config" file as well as everything in
".WikidPadGlobals" directory (normally only the global text blocks
file).

After that the program terminates immediately (otherwise the files
would be recreated).

This switch is mainly used for the uninstalling of a Windows binary.
The uninstaller *will* ask before running WikidPad with this option.

