++ Incremental Search

When in a document type CTRL-F or F3 to start an incremental search in
the left field of the status bar. This works for the editor and for the Webkit HTML preview with small differences.

When in incremental search mode anything you type becomes a search
string, and as you type you are brought to matches in the current
text. Typing CTRL-F, or F3 again or typing CURSOR DOWN or PAGE DOWN
will "Search Next" while SHIFT-F3, CURSOR UP or PAGE UP search
backwards.

To exit incremental search mode type ENTER.

Incremental search for editor supports regex. For example: To match the
word "incremental" or the word "search" in this document, type:

CTRL-F
incremental|search
Then type CTRL-F again to cycle through the matches.


Further details of the behavior of inc. search:

For editor and Webkit:

    * Ctrl-F while text is selected copies it to search
      field up to the first newline or up to 30 characters
    * Clicking outside of the search field terminates search
    * If search pattern is found search field is green
    * If search pattern is not found search field is yellow

For editor only:

    * Entered search string is taken as regular expression
    * F3 starts search field with last search entered
    * Search starts at cursor position (1.8beta5 and prior started
      always at page beginning)
    * ENTER terminates search and keeps last found text selected (if any)
    * ESC terminates search and goes back where search began
    * If search pattern is an invalid regex, color doesn't change

For Webkit only:

    * Entered search string is taken as plain text (but search is
      case-insensitive)
    * F3 is same as Ctrl-F
    * ENTER terminates search
    * ESC terminates search


In the options dialog, page "Searching" there is also an option
"Delay before auto-close". Entering a number greater 0 denotes the
number of seconds of inactivity before incremental search is closed
automatically. 0 means "wait forever".


[icon: lens]