++ Inline Python Eval

You can evaluate python expressions directly in the editor by
highlighting the expression and pressing CTRL-E. Example:

Highlight the calculation below, and type CTRL-E.

1+2+3
 
You can also execute blocks of code within a document.  Blocks of code
are defined within <% %> blocks. For example:

<%
editor.GotoPos(editor.GetLength())
editor.AddText('\nhello ')
%>

To execute the code above, type Ctrl-E. Ctrl-E actually will execute all
of the scripts on a page, including script imports.

You can assign up to 4 functions on a page to a Ctrl-# key. For example:

function 1: <% 1: editor.AddText(lib.now()) %>
function 2: <% 2: lib.addDate(editor) %>

Type Ctrl-1 to execute function 1. Enter Ctrl-2 to execute function 2.

You can define your own functions for evaluation by copying
evalLibrary.py into a directory in the wikidPad install directory
called "user_extensions". This file will not be touched when upgrading
wikidPad.

file:///C|/Program%20Files/WikidPad/extensions/EvalLibrary.py
file:///C|/Program%20Files/WikidPad/user_extensions/EvalLibrary.py

*Script Imports*

You can import scripts from another page using the following attribute.

[import_scripts: GlobalScriptLibrary]

Type "Ctrl-4" to see the output from script 4 on the page
GlobalScriptLibrary.

*Editor Control Functions*

See http://www.yellowbrain.com/stc/index.html for a list of the functions
available to the "editor" control.

*Another Example*

Highlight the line below and press CTRL-3

c:\this path\will be encoded.txt

<% 3: lib.encodeSelection(editor) %>

