[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Keyboard Shortcut

++ Menu Wiki

+++ New - [Ctrl-N]
Create new wiki

+++ Open: In This window - [Ctrl-Alt-O]

++ ["Edit" menu]

++ Search wiki - [Ctrl-Alt-F]
Start the [search dialog] in order to search the whole wiki. See [SearchingTheWiki#++ To search all pages].

++ Print - [Ctrl-P]
Start the [print dialog] for a plain text print of some or all WikiPages. See [Printing].
DialogPrint

++ Undo - [Ctrl-Z]
Undo last editing. 

++ Redo - [Ctrl-Y]
Redo last editing. [Ctrl-Y]

++ Search and Replace - [Ctrl-R]
Do search or replace operation on a single page.

++ Cut - [Ctrl-X], Copy - [Ctrl-Z] and Paste - [Ctrl-V]
The usual clipboard operations, as in any text editor.
Note: From the [HTML preview], only "Copy" may be used, of course, as there is no editing possible.

++ Select All - [Ctrl-A]
Select all text of current edit window.

++ Copy to ScratchPad - [Ctrl-Alt-C]
Copy selected text to the special ScratchPad page which is automatically inserted into each WikidPad wiki.

+++ Current Date - [Ctrl-Alt-D]
Inserts the current date into the editor

+ Menu Tabs

++ Toggle Ed./Prev. - [Ctrl-Shift-Space]
Switch between editor and [HTML preview] mode in current tab.

++ Enter Edit Mode - [Ctrl-Shift-A]
Shows editor in current tab.

++ Enter Preview Mode - [Ctrl-Shift-S]
Shows [HTML preview].


+ Menu Wiki Page

++ Save - [Ctrl-S]
Save current the WikiPage to the database (in fact all modified wiki pages are saved).

++ Rename - [Ctrl-Alt-R]
Rename current page. After choosing the new name you are also asked if you want WikidPad to replace all references to the old name to references to the new one (if you have not set a default action in options).

Be aware that this process is only a simple text search and replace which may produce wrong results under some circumstances.

++ Delete - [Ctrl-D]
Delete current page.

++ Set as Root - [Ctrl-Shift-Q]
Set current page as root of the tree.

The child relationships between WikiPages actually form a graph (each page can have zero or more parents) but graphs are hard to display so it is mapped to a tree instead.

In a real tree, each node has exactly one parent except the root node which has none, but we don't have a real tree so every node (aka WikiPage) is as good as any other for the tree root.

++ Follow Link - [Ctrl-L]
Follow the URL or WikiWord link, on which the text cursor in the editor currently is.

++ Follow Link in New Tab - [Ctrl-Alt-L]
Same as "Follow Link" but opens a new tab for the target.

++ Bold - [Ctrl-B]
Marks selection in editor with appropriate markup for bold text.

++ Italic - [Ctrl-I]
Marks selection in editor with appropriate markup for italics.

++ Heading - [Ctrl-Alt-H]
Marks line containing text cursor with markup for a heading.

This can be used multiple times to change heading level.

++ Rewrap Text - [Ctrl-W]
Rewraps text (adds/removes newlines) to make each line contain no more characters as defined in "wrap" attribute. See [TextFormatting].

++ Convert
+++ Selection to Link - [Ctrl-J]
Makes the selected text in editor to a wiki link by removing forbidden characters.

+++ Selection to Wiki Word - [Ctrl-Shift-R]
Moves selected text to another wiki word and places a link to this word where the text was.

You are asked for the link to the word. If you enter an existing wiki word you are asked if you want to append the text to this word.

+ Menu Navigate

++ Back - [Alt-Left]
Move backward in the history of visited pages for this tab.

++ Forward - [Alt-Right]
Move forward in the history of visited pages for this tab.

++ Wiki Home - [Ctrl-Q]
Go to the wiki root word (the word with the same name as the whole wiki).

++ Go to Page - [Ctrl-O]
Opens dialog to open a particular page. This dialog also allows to open or delete multiple pages. If you enter a non-existing page name you can also create a new page there.

After entering a few characters, the list only shows page names which start with these characters and after that names which contain the characters. The names inside of these two groups can be ordered either alphabetically or by the time of last visit of this page, so most recently used pages are placed near the top of the list.

++ Go to Parent - [Ctrl-Up]
Shows a list of parents for the current wiki word and allows to go to one of it.

++ List Children - [Ctrl-Down]
Same as "Go to Parent" for children of current page.

++ List Parentless Pages - [Ctrl-Shift-Up]
List of all [parentless nodes] (independent of current wiki word).

++ Show History - [Ctrl-H]
Shows history of all pages visited in the current tab.

++ Up History - [Ctrl-Alt-Up]
Same as "Show History" but automatically selects the previously visited page.

++ Down History - [Ctrl-Alt-Down]
Same as "Show History" but automatically selects the next page to visit.

++ Add Bookmark - [Ctrl-Alt-B]
Append a special bookmark attribute to the current WikiPage.

++ Go to Bookmark - [Ctrl-Shift-Up]
Lists all pages with bookmark attribute.


+ Menu Extra

+++ Eval - [Ctrl-E]
If text is selected it is evaluated and result is inserted after it (useful as calculator).
If no text is selected, all scripts included on the page are executed.
See [InlinePythonEval].

+++ Run Function # -  [Ctrl-1] to [Ctrl-6] 
Run one of six numbered scripts on the page (or imported from another page).
See [InlinePythonEval].


[:page:PageFooter][icon:list][short_hint:Special function keys, often keeping Ctrl and/or Alt pressed while striking the actual Key]