[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Menu Wiki Page

++ Save - [Ctrl-S]
Save current wiki page to database (in fact all modified wiki pages are saved).

++ Rename - [Ctrl-Alt-R]
Rename current page. After chosing the new you are also asked if you want WikidPad to replace all references to the old name to references to the new one (if you have not set a default action in options).

Be aware that this process is only a simple text search and replace which may produce wrong results under some circumstances.

++ Delete - [Ctrl-D]
Delete current page.

----

++ Set as Root - [Ctrl-Shift-Q]
Set current page as root of the tree.

The child relationships between wiki pages actually form a graph (each page can have zero or more parents) but graphs are hard to display so it is mapped to a tree instead.

In a real tree, each node has exactly one parent except the root node which has none, but we don't have a real tree so every node (aka wiki page) is as good as any other for the tree root.

++ Reset root
Reset tree root tothe default (the wiki root which is the page with the same name as the whole wiki)

++ Synchronize tree
Show and select WikiPage for current WikiTextEditorTab in [Tree control]. By default this happens automatically but you can change that in the options.

----

++ Follow Link - [Ctrl-L]
Follow the URL or WikiWordLink which is currently under the text cursor of the WikiTextEditor.

++ Follow Link in New Tab - [Ctrl-Alt-L]
Same as "Follow Link" but opens a new (foreground) WikiTextEditorTab for the target.

++ Copy URL to Clipboard
Copy "wiki:" URL of current wiki page to clipboard.

If you right click on an "anchor:" definition in [Edit mode] and choose "Copy Anchor URL to clipboard" the URL contains also a link to the particular anchor.

----

++ Add version
Add a new version


[:page:PageFooter][icon:left-right][alias:'"Wiki Page" Menu'; Wiki Page Menu][short_hint:The "Wiki Page" menu]