+ Menu Edit

++ Undo
Undo last editing.

++ Redo
Redo last editing.

++ Search and Replace
Do search or replace operation on a single page.

++ Cut, Copy and Paste
The usual clipboard operations, as in any text editor.
Note: From the HTML preview, only "Copy" may be used, of course, as there is no editing possible.

++ Paste Raw HTML
If data in HTML format is available on clipboard (e.g. if you copied something from Firefox or Internet Explorer) paste it as raw text into the editor. The content is enclosed in << <body></body> >> so the code will be shown nearly as it is in HTML preview/export (see [TextFormatting#++++ HTML as is]).

++ Copy to ScratchPad
Copy selected text to the special ScratchPad page which is automatically inserted into each WikidPad wiki.

++ Paste Textblock
Select an item from the submenu to add a textblock to the current page. See [TextBlocks].

++ Clipboard Catcher
(Windows and Linux/GTK only, Linux/GTK needs pyGTK)
Allows to catch arbitrary text from clipboard regardless which application has sent it. See [ClipboardCatcher].

++ Line Move
Provides functions to move logical lines up and down. "Logical lines" means lines terminated by pressing RETURN key and may span multiple visible lines in the editor. If the cursor is just placed in a single line, this one is moved. If one or more lines are selected, all of them are moved.

The variants "with indented" also automatically select and move all lines below the already selected area which are more indented than the first selected line.

++ Spell check
(Only available if pyEnchant or the WikidPad spell check addon is installed properly)
Run spell checker for one or multiple pages. See [SpellChecking].

++ Spell Check While Type
(Only available if pyEnchant or the WikidPad spell check addon is installed properly)
Switch the spell check while typing on or off. See [SpellChecking].

++ Clear ignore list
Clear the ignore list for the spell check while type. See [SpellChecking].

++ Insert
+++ File URL
Starts a file dialog where you can select one file for which a "file:..." URL is inserted in editor

+++ Current Date
Inserts current date in editor

++ Settings
+++ Date Format
Set format of the date you can insert.

+++ Auto-Wrap
Automatically wrap long lines in order to fit on screen

+++ Auto-Indent
When hitting return, the indentation of current line is copied for next line.

+++ Auto-Bullets
If current line starts with a bullet * or numbering (old form: 1., 2., 3. or new form: #) next line contains bullet in the same place.

+++ Tabs to spaces
If on, hitting tab inserts spaces, otherwise real tabulator characters are inserted.


