[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ MenuEdit

++ Undo - [Ctrl-Z]
Undo last editing. 

++ Redo - [Ctrl-Y]
Redo last editing. [Ctrl-Y]

----
 
++ Search and Replace - [Ctrl-R]
Do search or replace operation on a single page.

----
 
++ Cut - [Ctrl-X], Copy - [Ctrl-Z] and Paste - [Ctrl-V]
The usual clipboard operations, as in any text editor.
Note: From the [HTML preview], only "Copy" may be used, of course, as there is no editing possible.

++ Select All - [Ctrl-A]
Select all text of current edit window.

----
 
++ Copy to ScratchPad - [Ctrl-Alt-C]
Copy selected text to the special ScratchPad page which is automatically inserted into each WikidPad wiki.

++ Paste Textblock
Select an item from the submenu to add a textblock to the current page. See [TextBlocks].

++ Clipboard Catcher
(MsWindows and Linux/GTK only, Linux/GTK needs [pyGTK])
Allows to catch arbitrary text from clipboard regardless which application has sent it. See [ClipboardCatcher].

----
 
++ Spell check
(Only available if pyEnchant or the WikidPad spell check addon is installed properly)
Run spell checker for one or multiple pages. See [SpellChecking].

++ Spell Check While Type
(Only available if pyEnchant or the WikidPad spell check addon is installed properly)
Switch the spell check while typing on or off. See [SpellChecking].

++ Clear ignore list
Clear the ignore list for the spell check while type. See [SpellChecking].

----
 
++ Insert
+++ File URL
Starts a file dialog. If You select a file here, a corresponding "file:..." URL gets inserted at the current text position.

+++ Current Date - [Ctrl-Alt-D]
Insert the current date into the WikiTextEditor

++ Settings
+++ Date Format
Set format of the date you can insert.

+++ Auto-Wrap
Automatically wrap long lines in order to fit on screen

+++ Auto-Indent
When hitting return, the indentation of current line is copied for next line.

+++ Auto-Bullets
If current line starts with a bullet * or numbering (old form: 1., 2., 3. or new form: #) next line contains bullet in the same place.

+++ Tabs to spaces
If on, hitting the [Tab key] inserts spaces, otherwise real tabulator characters are inserted.


[:page:PageFooter][icon:left-right][alias:'"Edit" menu'][short_hint:'The "Edit" menu - [Alt-E]']