++ Migration Between Db Types

*This topic is incomplete!*

It is recommended to make a backup before applying the following procedures.

When migrating you will loose stored searches and the modification and
creation dates of the wiki pages!



From "Original Gadfly" to "Compact Sqlite":

1. Start WikidPad
2. Use "Open as Type" to open your wiki (this also works if the wiki is
already open)
3. Choose "Compact Sqlite" as database type
4. From "Wiki" menu run "Copy .wiki files to database"
5. From the same menu, run "Rebuild Wiki"
6. Close and reopen WikidPad

Now you can go into the "data" directory inside the wiki directory and
delete all \*.wiki files to ensure that no old files remain if you later
want to migrate back. Do not delete the one \*.wiki file in the directory
above "data"!


The \*.gfd and \*.grl files as well as the "index" directory are also
unnecessary for Sqlite but needed when migrating back.

If you have deleted them and want to go back to Gadfly you have to copy
them from another Gadfly wiki (e.g. WikidPadHelp) before applying the
following.




From "Compact Sqlite" to "Original Gadfly":

1. Start WikidPad
2. Open your wiki
3. Choose "Wiki" -> "Export" -> "Export wiki to .wiki files"
4. Select the "data" directory of your wiki as target
5. Use "Wiki" -> "Open as Type" to open the already opened wiki, but
choose "Original Gadfly" as db type.
6. Run "Wiki" -> "Rebuild Wiki"
7. Close and reopen WikidPad

Now you can delete the "wiki.sli" file in the "data" directory which is
only needed by Sqlite.