[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Renaming Wiki Words

You can rename the current WikiWord from the menu, or via the [Ctrl-Alt-R] command. 
You will then see a dialog asking you for the new name of the wiki word.

While typing the input is checked against most conditions which may prevent a renaming (but not all), especially if the new word exists already or contains forbidden characters. If the new word can't be used for renaming, a red error message appears below the input field.

++ Additional Options

The dialog has two additional options:

+++++ Modify all links to the wiki word
If checked, WikidPad tries to update all WikiPages in the database that have links to the renamed word.

For a large wiki this can be a relatively slow operation. Furthermore the updating does not always work reliably, sometimes it modifies things which aren't intended as links. Therefore it is often better to make this update later by hand (maybe by using wiki-wide search and replace).

+++++ Also rename subpages
If checked, all [Subpages] of the page are renamed accordingly, e.g. if you rename "ebay" to "OnlineTrade" then "ebay/Circlet" becomes "OnlineTrade/Circlet" and "ebay/Couch/BuyerAddress" becomes "OnlineTrade/Couch/BuyerAddress".

Before this mass renaming is done, WikidPad checks if any of the target names exist already. If so, you get an error message and no renaming is performed at all.


++ Default Settings
The default settings for these options can be set in the [OptionsDialog#+++++ Rename dialog defaults]


++ Title auto-rename

If the title of page which was generated at page creation (the text at the top beginning with "+ ") wasn't modified since creation, then the title will be modified accordingly when the page is renamed.


[:page:PageFooter][icon:rename][alias:'"Rename Wiki Word" dialog'] 