++ Searching The Wiki


+++ To search inside a page

CTRL-F or F3 turns on wiki page IncrementalSearch.
CTRL-R brings up the "Find and Replace" dialog.


+++ To search all pages

CTRL-ALT-F brings up the search dialog for the entire wiki.

The dialog is non-modal, this means you can edit your wiki while the dialog is open.

*Be aware* that the search operates on the data in the database. If you have changed a page in the editor and not yet saved, this changes can't be seen by the search dialog.

The whole right side of the dialog shows the search results, the left side allows to control how to search.

From top to bottom:


++++ Searching

*Text field "Wiki Search"*
Enter the pattern you want to search for. You can use regular expressions here. Below you can set exactly how the pattern should be interpreted.

*Simple regex*
Choose this if the pattern contains only a single RE

*"Anded" regex*
Choose this if the pattern contains multiple REs connected with "and". For example, to search this wiki for pages with "search" and "wiki" in them type:

search and wiki

Some operations are not available in "Anded" regex mode.

*Case sensitive, Whole word*
Choose here if case matters for the search pattern and/or if only whole words should be searched for

*Button "Find"*
Starts search process. If finished, a list of matching pages is listed on the right, optional with the number of occurring matches in parentheses and/or a few characters of context if set in the options.

*Button "Set Page list"*
Opens the [PageListDialog], the Wiki Search Dialog vanishes until you close the other dialog. You can use it to limit the pages which should be searched by the "Find" operation. If you save the search, the settings in the [PageListDialog] are also stored.


++++ Replacing

*Text field "Replace By"*
Enter here with which a found pattern on a page (or all pages) should be replaced. This field and the following three buttons are only available for "Simple regex" mode.

*Button "Find Next"*
Find the next matching part of text in current page or next page in the search results and select it.

*Button "Replace"*
Replace current selection with content of "Replace by" and go to next matching part.

*Button "Replace All"*
After asking for confirmation, replaces all occurrences matching to the search pattern by the replacement in all pages in the search results.


++++ Storing/Loading Searches

*List of "Saved Searches"*
Contains the titles of all searches stored in this wiki. The saved searches can also be seen in the tree after expanding "Views" and therein "saved searches" (only presented if searches exist).

Expanding one of the searches starts the search operation.

*Button "Save Search"*
Saves the current content of the "Wiki Search" field and the settings below (not the replacement) in the wiki. First you are asked for the title of the search. If the title already exists, you must confirm to overwrite the previous search with this title.

*Button "Delete Search(es)"*
Delete the searches selected in the list after confirmation

*Button "Load Search"*
Loads selected search into the searching area.

*Button "Load and Run Search"*
Same as hitting "Load Search" and "Find" button subsequently. Double clicking in the list has the same effect.


++++ Other

*Button "Options"*
Starts a dialog to set options for the searching:

    Context *before* and *after*
    Chooses the number of characters to show before and after
    a found match as context. For an "anded" regex, the beginning
    of the page is shown with so many characters as the sum of the
    "before" and "after" values. Using context may slow down the
    searching a bit.

    *Count Occurrences*
    Counts how many matches a page contains and shows this number
    in parentheses after each page name. This option slows down
    searching.


*Button "Close"*
Close the dialog, same as hitting ESC key.


++++ The result list on the right

Each item in the result list consist of the page name, one or two optional numbers in parentheses behind the name (one number: Number of occurrences, two numbers: currently shown occurrences, then "/", then number of occurrences or a question mark if unknown)

In the result list, double clicking on an item (not on its blue bar!) brings you to the page and (if existing) to the matching occurrence shown for the list item. If the page was already loaded, a double click brings you to the next occurrence on this page.

If a particular occurrence is shown in the list, you can select this item and press F3 or click on the little blue bar on the left to show the next occurrence on this page.

[icon: lens]
