++ Subpages

You can use subpages to make a page a kind of folder for other pages related to it. For instance you can create a page "ebay" (you don't have to create it) and then create subpages for each selling or buying you did in ebay, e.g. "ebay/Couch", "ebay/Circlet", "ebay/Cerebrum", ...

You can create further subsubpages, e.g. "ebay/Couch/BuyerAddress" and so on.

You can create relative and absolute links (similar to relative and absolute pathes to files) to other pages according to the following rules:

Links starting with two slashes are absolute, so [//ebay/Circlet] goes to page "ebay/Circlet" regardless on which page the link is placed.

Links starting with one slash go to sub page, so on page "ebay" the link [/Couch] goes to "ebay/Couch". The tree also shows such a child relation differently as children "/Couch" of parent "ebay". If e.g. another page "Furniture" also links to "ebay/Couch", then "ebay/Couch" is shown with full name as child of "Furniture".

Links starting with no slash go to sibling, so on page "ebay/Cerebrum" the link [Circlet] goes to "ebay/Circlet". This is the only link type where camel-case links can be used, so from "ebay/Cerebrum" the link OldCar goes to "ebay/OldCar".

Links starting with one or more ".." separated by slashes go to super page. If a wiki link follows, it goes to sibling. E.g. from "ebay/Couch/BuyerAddress":

[..]   goes to "ebay/Couch"
[../..]   goes to "ebay"
[../../Amazon]   goes to "Amazon"  (rules for file paths are different here, they would lead to "ebay/Amazon" instead).


+++ Wiki links versus wiki page names

Some components of WikidPad expect wiki page names yet which always contain the full path (like an absolute link without leading "//"). If you use subpages you should always be aware of the difference of page names and the wiki links. If you don't use subpages links and page names are the same.

At the moment the attributes "alias" and "template" expect wiki links as well as the dialog for [Menu Format#+++ Selection to Wiki Word] while the dialog for [Menu Navigate#++ Go to Page] works with page names.

E.g. on page "ebay/Couch" you have to write <<[alias: "Chaise"]>> to create alias "ebay/Chaise".


[alias: Subpage]
