[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Todo Items

++ Special Keywords
In WikidPad "todo", "done", "action", "track", "issue", "question" and
"project" are special keywords that enable you to track important
items under the [View Menu] in the tree.

	* todo: I have to do this.
	* done: I have done this.
	* action: I have to act in this.
	* track: I am tracking this
	* issue: This is to be addressed
	* question: This is a question
	* project: This is my project

Now open the views node in the tree on the left to see how these todo
items have been added.  For example, open "Views/question" and you will
see a node named "This is a question."


++ Escape Unwanted TodoItems

Unwanted TodoItems like e.g.:

    Interesting CD track: loud music

can be escaped:

    Interesting CD \track: loud music


++ Terminate TodoItems

A todo item ends either with a newline or with a vertical bar |. If you want to insert a bar into the item, you can escape it with a backslash.

Example: todo: This item ends here| This text is not part of the item any more.
todo: This does \|not end here.

Look in the "Views" subtree to see the todo entries.


++ Sub-Categories for TodoItems

These items supports nested sub-categories as well, for example:

todo.system.bugs.urgent: There is a bug in the system

This will create a "system" node in the tree under "Views/todo", which has a "bugs" subnode which has a "urgent" subnode...


[:page:PageFooter][icon:pin][alias:TodoItem]