[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Where Is The Data Stored

Different DatabaseTypes supported. Thus, this depends on which is in use:

++ Original Gadfly
The data of your wiki is stored in plain text under the [wiki data directory], usually below the [configuration directory].

There is one file per WikiPage.

The .grl and .gdf files are the database files used to index your WikiWords efficiently.

This type is slow but portable across different platforms because it doesn't need any external binaries.


++ Compact Sqlite (aka WikidPadCompact)
The data is stored in a single file named "wiki.sli" under the [wiki data directory], usually below the [configuration directory].

This database file is created by the Sqlite database engine and contains the content of all WikiPages as well as the cache information for fast handling of your wiki.

Advantages of this type are its speed and efficient usage of hard disk space. 
On the other hand single pages can't be edited with any text editor or searched by a desktop search engine (like Google Desktop).


++ Original Sqlite
The data of your wiki is stored in plain text under the [wiki data directory], usually below the [configuration directory].

There is one file per WikiPage.

The database to index the wiki is stored in the file "wikiovw.sli".

This type provides one file per page (as "Original Gadfly") which can be edited or searched by external programs and is nearly as fast as "Compact Sqlite".


[:page:PageFooter][icon:question]