[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Wiki Pad Help Style Guide

As the user base of WikidPad increases continuously, we did a full refactoring of these pages.

The objective of this page is to document and to explain the architecture and styles we have applied.

++ Language and Short Keys

This Help Wiki uses the terminology of the original English language version.
And uses as KeyboardShortcut the standard MsWindows version (see KeyBindings).

 

++ Structure of any regular Page 

Any regular page of this help wiki is build as follows:

	* First Line: including the PageHeader and the (local) ToC
	* Second Line: First Level Header-1 - using "+ 'WikiWord of WikiPage'"
	* Third Line: empty line.
	* body of the page
	* Two blanc lines
	* Last Line: including the PageFooter, followed by applicable WikiDocumentAttributes.

++ The First Line

Obviously, the single line \[:page:PageHeader]\[:toc:] on top serves two purposes:

+++ A general Navigation Table

\[:page:PageHeader] allows for a table of important links to be offered anywhere,
thus improving the already excellent navigation capabilities of WikidPad.

And such can be removed or adjusted in one central place, if needed.
You may even empty the content of PageHeader in order to make it's effect invisible.

+++ An OverView of the HeadLines

Using \[:toc:] gives a comprehensive overview of all headers defined in the page,
and should allow easy navigation especially in lengthy pages without any need to
use the [page structure window].

+++ Beware exported results!

So far, any such navigation aid can also be accomplished by means build into WikidPad.
Alas: if You export a WiKi e.g. to HtmlPages, all these build in functionalities are
not available any more.   

++ The Last Line

Intentionally, all relevant attributes are kept in the last line. 

Somtimes, this line may not be easy to read -on first glance. 

Alas: keeping the attributes together with the PageFooter allows for global SearchingTheWiki 
thereby keeping complete control of what-is-used-where. 

We believe, gives an important advantage for the ongoing maintenance of the pages.

++ Applicable WikiDocumentAttributes

Following WikiDocumentAttributes are used in the last line, and preferably in the following order:

+++ icon:

++++ Grouping Icons

+++++ icon: list

+++++ icon: left-right
[Icon left-right] is used for the pages regarding the [Menus]

+++++ icon: spanner
[Icon spanner] is used for Example Pages such as ExampleInsertions.

++++ Special Purpose Icons

+++++ icon: cog
[Icon cog], which is also used by WikidPad for the [Func. pages] in the [Tree View]
is used for the page abut WikiMaintenance.

+++++ icon: disk
[Icon disk] is used for the page about AutoSave.

+++++ icon: folder
[Icon folder] is used for the pages related to directories such as 
the [installation directory] or the [wiki data directory].

+++++ icon: console
[Icon console] is used for the page about CommandLineSupport.

+++++ icon: lens
[Icon lens] is used for the pages IncrementalSearch and SearchingTheWiki.

+++++ icon: pin
[Icon pin] is used for the page about TodoItems.

+++++ icon: rename
[Icon rename] is used for the page about RenamingWikiWords.

+++++ icon: question
[Icon question] is used for the page about WhereIsTheDataStored.


+++ alias:

+++ short_hint:

+++ camelCaseWordsEnabled: false

+++ child_sort_order: natural

+++ bookmarked: true

+++ tree_position:


++ Naming Conventions for WikiPages


++ Exceptions


[:page:PageFooter]