[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Wikid Pad Help

++ Description

WikidPad: a [wiki]-like notebook. For your thoughts, ideas, concepts,
contacts, projects, TodoItems ... : *anything* worth noting to *You*.

What makes WikidPad different from other notepads or outliners ?
	* The ease of cross-linking your information - on the fly ?
  

WikiLinks in a wiki are created by typing in WikiWords.
A WikiWord is any mixed case word typed into the editor.  TodoItem or
JohnDoe are examples of WikiWords.
[Wikis] are all about quickly linking your information together.
To activate or follow a WikiWord link, just *double click on it*, or type
[Ctrl-L] when the cursor is in the word.

++ Features

	* WikiWordLinking - On the fly
		* WikiWords can be CamelCase, [not Camel Case] or WIKIDPADWords.
		* UrlLinking with [absolute URL]s and [relative URL]s

	* TextFormatting - On the fly 
		* WikiHeaders, BulletedLists, WikiTables

	* WikiTextEditor - easy and convenient
		* WikiWord AutoCompletion
		* integrated SpellChecking
		* [Folding]

	* WikiWordNavigation - versatile and efficient 
		* SearchingTheWiki, incl. IncrementalSearch
		* WikiWordHistory to view/navigate
		* ["Tree" window] with TreeNodeIcons, TreeNodeColors and DynamicViews
		* ["Page Structure" window], WikiStructureGraphs, ["Chronological View" window]

	* Cross-index Your information
		* [Anchors], [Footnotes] and [Bookmarks]
		* WikiDocumentAttributes - more cross-indexing and formatting 
		* TodoItems (categorise and track todos, questions, issues ...)

	* Empowering TimeSaver's and Safety Features
		* [Insertions]
		* FavoriteWikis
		* [Subpages]
		* [Templates]
		* InternatiönalChàracters
		* WikiFonts
		* AutoSave

	* Get things done
		* GlobalScriptLibrary and InlinePythonEval - 
		* Define reusable TextBlocks
		* KeyboardShortcuts and modifiable KeyBindings

	* Functional [Menus] and Dialogs
		* RenamingWikiWords: ["Rename Wiki Word" dialog]
		* [Printing]:	["Print" dialog]
		* WikiExport:	["Export" dialog] / WikiImport	["Import" dialog]
		* OptionsDialog:	["Options" dialog]

	* Versatile technology
		* ExternalGraphicalApplications
		* ApiDocs / WikidPadHooks
		* CommandLineSupport
		* WikidPadOnUSB / ApplicationConfigurationFiles
		* Different DatabaseTypes (WhereIsTheDataStored ?, MigrationBetweenDbTypes)


While you are reading through this help document select "Wiki/New"
from the menu at the top of the application window to create your own wiki.
Then just start typing text with WikiWords to build your own Wiki.


*Other/Questions*

    * WikiMaintenance
    * WikidPadSupport
    * ChangeLog
    * WikiLockFile
    * ThirdPartyLibraries
    * WikidPadHelpTodo


[:page:PageFooter][alias: HelpDocument][child_sort_order: natural]