[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Wiki Document Attributes

WikiPages support "attributes". Attributes serve two purposes:

	* You may index your data by attribute (in addition to: by WikiWord)
	* They are used to specify certain special WikiFormattingCommands

You can attach attributes to a page like this:

\[attribute: value]

By such setting of an attribute, this document can be seen under the
["Views" node] in the ["Tree" pane] on the left, under importance/high.

Attributes you might want to add to your WikiWords, for example, might be:

[contact: work]
[contact: private] for wiki contacts, ie JohnDoe
[work-related: true] to mark something as work related
[contact.personal.kids: school] to mark something as personal contact
about school of the kids.

Open the ["Views" node] in the ["Tree" pane] on the left to see how these 
attributes become available for reference.

++ Multiple Attribute Values

Some attribute key may have have multiple values, e.g.
<<
[alias:Foo]
[alias:Bar]
[alias:FooBar]
>>

Abbreviate multiple values of same attribute by writing them separated by semicolon, e.g.
<<
[alias:Foo; Bar; FooBar]
>>

++ Quoting Values

You can also quote the values, if they contain disallowed characters, e.g.
[contact: "Carl [Home]"]

The precise quoting syntax is the same as for [Insertions]#++ Syntax


++ AutoCompletion

Attributes also support AutoCompletion. Try it:

Place the cursor behind the m and press [Ctrl-Space]
[im


++ Formatting a Page

+++ Attribute Based Tree Formatting

There are 3 special attributes which you can attach to a page in order to control
the appearance of the page's node in the ["Tree" pane].

These attributes override any [global settings] (see below): 

+++++ icon: name

Example:
[icon:lens]
\[icon:lens] changes the icon for this page to a lens.

	See TreeNodeIcons

+++++ color: (white, blue, etc.)
	See TreeNodeColors
	
+++++ bold: (true or false)
Set the font weight of the title of the WikiPage as shown in the TreeControl to bold, or to normal.

+++ Formatting a TodoItem

Such attributes can also be written in a TodoItem. If used there, they control the presentation of the TodoEntry (below the special ["Views" node]) instead of the WikiPage.

Example:
todo: Show another color [color: orange]


++ Using Global Attribute Properties

You can also use global attribute properties to change the appearance based on the existence of other properties.

Examples:

[global.importance.high.bold=true]

This means any document in the wiki with an "importance" attribute
that has a value of high will be bold.
[importance: high]
So setting \[importance: high] above is what makes the title of this document look bold in the TreeControl.


If the global definition contains the first part(s) of an attribute the appearance is also changed.

Example:

Above we had already defined:
\[contact.personal.kids: school]

The following defines that pages containing attributes beginning with "contact" part have color Indian red:
[global.contact.color: indian red]

But the node isn't colored so because of this more specific definition to use dark orchid for attributes beginning with "contact.personal":
[global.contact.personal.color: dark orchid]


When creating a new wiki some default global attributes are
automatically attached to the root wiki document on the WikiSettings page.


++ Special Attributes

+++++ priority: 1-5
The priority setting will set the node text in the tree to
"WikiDocumentAttributes (3)" for example.  It also will affect the
importance setting of the node if "importance" is not already set.

[priority: 3]


+++++ font: font face name
For the current page or the for whole wiki, set a particular font face to be used by the WikiTextEditor, 
See WikiFonts for example and details.


+++++ camelCaseWordsEnabled: "true" or "false"
Control, if on one page or all pages (prefixed with "global") CamelCaseWords should be interpreted as wiki links.

Bracketed words (e.g. [CamelCaseWord] are always seen as links).


+++++ paragraph_mode: "true" or "false"
Choose if for one or all pages.

A newline in the WikiTextEditor is shown:
	* as new line in [HTML preview]/[HTML export] (paragraph_mode: false) or
	* is ignored and only an empty line starts a new paragraph (paragraph_mode: true).

This paragraph is shown in
preview differently if you
remove the backslash from the following attribute,
save the page and then switch to preview.

This will be a new paragraph. To make a line break
in paragraph mode, write the HTML tag 'br'.<br>
Now we start again here.

\[paragraph_mode: true]


+++++ alias: other page name
Set another name under which a page can be linked to.

Example:
To this page can also be linked as WikiDocumentAttribute.
[alias:WikiDocumentAttribute]


+++++ import_scripts: page to import scripts from
See InlinePythonEval.


+++++ child_sort_order: order how to sort [child nodes] in the tree
Possible values are:
    * ascending: Sort alphabetically ascending
    * descending: Sort alphabetically descending
    * mod_oldest: Sort by modification date, oldest first
    * mod_newest: Sort by modification date, newest first
    * unsorted: Make no attempt to sort (fastest)
    * natural: Sort in order of appearance of the words on the page (may not always work)

You can also use the attribute global.child_sort_order to control the default for the wiki (without this attribute "ascending" is used)


+++++ tree_position: Order number for position in subtree
Gives a position number where to place a particular word in the tree relative to its siblings. 1 places it at the top, 2 at the second-top and so-on (if place is occupied by another word with same position, it is placed as near as possible). A high value like e.g. 10000 places it at the bottom.

Be aware that a word may have multiple parents, can therefore appear multiple times in the tree and will each time try to place itself at the given position.


+++++ export: Export this page
Control if the page containing this attribute should be exported. Only possible value is "false".
The HTML exporter respects this attribute, others, like the multipage text exporter, do not.

+++ Templates

+++++ template: page which content should be used as template
See [Templates]

+++++ template_head: "auto" or "manual"
Choose if a new page created from a template should take the heading from the template or should automatically create a new one.
See [Templates]


+++++ pagetype: type of the page
Controls some behavior of the WikiTextEditor.

Currently only type "form" is supported (see [FormPages] for details).

+++ Spell Checking

+++++ language: language code
Controls language of a page or the wiki (with "global." prepended) for [SpellChecking].

+++ html Colors and Background

+++++ html.linkcolor
Specify the color of a link in preview/HTML export with a numeric HTML color (e.g. "#000000" for black).

+++++ html.alinkcolor
Color of a link while hovering over it with the mouse or while mouse is pressed (depends on browser). Doesn't work for internal preview.

+++++ html.vlinkcolor
Color of an already visited link. Doesn't work for internal preview.

+++++ html.textcolor
Color of normal text.

+++++ html.bgcolor
Color of background.

+++++ html.bgimage
Link (URL) to a background image. Doesn't work for internal preview.


+++ auto_link
Allow to recognize WikiWords, which are not CamelCase in normal text (without brackets).

Supported values are:

    * off: Switch off recognition
    * relax: Recognition is case-insensitive and maps arbitrary
      non alpha-numeric characters in text to white spaces in the
      WikiWord.

When active, e.g. text "multipage text, format" is recognized as WikiWord [Multipage text format].

You can also use "global.auto_link" to set the option for the whole wiki.


+++++ view_pane
Controls which pane should be shown when a page is opened:

    * off: Don't change pane
    * editor: Show editor pane
    * preview: Show preview pane

You can also use "global.view_pane".


+++++ short_hint
If you place the mouse pointer over the wiki link to a page which contains this attribute,
the value of the attribute is shown as a tooltip. 

E.g. place the mouse pointer over one of these links and let it rest one moment:

	[Short_Hint Attribute]
	[Ctrl-B]
	ACLs, ADSs

+++ Structure Graphs

+++++ global.graph.relation.exclude
See WikiStructureGraphs.

+++++ global.graph.relation.include
See WikiStructureGraphs.


++ Error checking

The content of a page is checked on saving for logical errors in some of the special attributes. There is a [log window] below the editor (normally hidden) which shows error messages if something is wrong.

Currently it checks the attributes alias, color, icon and bold. The presentation attributes inside TodoItems are not checked.

The [log window] normally automatically pops up if new messages arrive and automatically hides when there are no more messages (both can be switched off in configuration dialog.

To test the error checking, remove the backslash on the following line and save the page:

\[icon:doesntexist]

Double clicking a message brings the editor to the offending attribute. Position may be a bit off if page was modified after saving.


[:page:PageFooter][tree_position: 6]