[:page:PageHeader][:toc:]
+ Chronological View Window

The chronological view window presents pages related to a particular date, ordered by time and a list of versions of a particular WikiPage. "Related" can mean different things, mainly date of last modification or of creation (currently only last modification is implemented).


++ The Timeline

Currently, the only way to present modification dates of pages is the timeline which is a list of dates, each date with a background color representing the number of pages related to that date (white for zero and going darker for more pages). When moving over a date with related pages with the mouse, a little window with a list of the pages appears.

You can go into that window and click on one of the page names with the left or middle mouse button to open the page.

To let the timeline show another date range you can currently only click twice (not doubleclick) on an arbitrary date and enter a new one (similar to renaming files in MsWindowsExplorer). After that the whole timeline refreshes according to your entry.


++ Versions

The [versions tab] lists all versions stored for the currently active WikiPage. Double-clicking on one of the versions shows it in the current editor or preview window. These versions are read-only and can't be modifed (except "<Current>"). Attributes are always taken from the current page state, so if e.g. the current page has "font" attribute "Verdana" then all previous versions will be shown in this font regardless if the attribute was there already.

To go back to the current state of the page, double click on "<Current>", the last element in versions list.

To create a [new version] from current state of a WikiPage, choose [Add version] from either the right-click menu of the [versions control] or from the [menu Wiki Page].

To delete a version, either hit the [Del key] after selecting the version or right-click on the [versions control] and choose "[Delete version]". At the moment you can only delete the oldest version (top of the list) or the newest version (one above "<Current>"), no versions in-between.


+++ Compare differences

You can also create an "inline diff" to compare two versions. The inline diff shows the changes done from one version to another as

    * red strikethrough text: deleted content
    * green underlined text: newly inserted content
    * black text: unchanged content

First double click on the version you want to have as "to" version in the "versions" tab then right click on the desired "from" version and choose "Diff inline" from context menu. This opens the diff view as a new tab in the main area.

In the diff view the versions tab works differently. Double clicking on a version changes the diff to compare the last version before the double clicked one with the double clicked one. So you can compare step by step which changes were made from one version to the next. The context menu of the version tab also allows to explicitly set the version to compare from or to compare to.


++ Options

See 
	* [OptionsDialog#+++ Chronological view|Chronological view] and 
	* [OptionsDialog#+++ Versioning Data|Versioning]


[:page:PageFooter][alias: chronological view window]