++ Word Linking

As you type wiki words into the editor they become underlined.  Words
that already have content, like AutoCompletion turn blue, words that
do not, like JavaTemplates, stay black but are underlined.

To activate or follow a wiki word link, *double click on it*, or
type CTRL-L when the cursor is in the word.


+++ What are wiki words?

Wiki words are (at least by default) all words which start with an
uppercase letter and where at least one uppercase letter follows a
lowercase letter in the word (this is called "camelcase", like e.g.
WikiWord) or where a lowercase letter follows after multiple uppercase
letters (ABCd).

Additionally text in brackets [] not containing some special
characters (backslash \, #, !, ], [) can be a wiki word (in short
called "bracketed wiki word"). If you bracket a camelcase wiki word
it's the same as the non-bracketed word.

Bracketed wiki words can also contain titles after a vertical bar '|'
(if present) up to the closing bracket. The title is shown in HTML
preview/export, example:

[WordLinking|text you see instead in preview]

See LinkTitle for more details about titles.


anchor: exclude_from_linking
+++ Exclude wiki words from linking

To exclude a wiki word from being interpreted as link, you can precede
it with a backslash \ (e.g. \WikiWord) or enter it in one of the
blacklists (open the "Views" node in the tree on the left, open therein
the "Func. pages" node to see all of them).

WikidPad recognizes CamelCase words as links (without brackets). To
ignore one of these words enter it in a cc. (=camelcase) blacklist,
each on a line of its own.

Words in [brackets] can also be wiki links. To ignore one of these
enter it in a ncc. (non-camelcase) blacklist *without the brackets*.

The "Global" variant of each blacklist is stored as user setting and
affects all wikis opened by the user while the "Wiki" variant is
stored for the wiki.
