++ Bookmarks
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
WikidPad supports adding bookmarks to pages; this allows you to quickly find a certain page back. Bookmarking is in principal meant to support editing of pages, but it also works in preview.

++++ Adding a bookmark
In order to bookmark a page, you add a bookmark attribute to it. This attribute has the format:
	* \[bookmarked=true]
You can add the bookmark by either:
	* typing it yourself
	* pressing Ctrl-Alt-B
	* selecting "Wiki Words / Add Bookmark" from the main menu
The automatic functions will append the atribute to the end of the wiki page.

	----
++++ Navigating using the bookmarks dialog
To view the list of bookmarked pages:
	* press Ctrl-Shift-B.
	* select "Wiki Words / List Bookmarks" from the main menu
This will bring up the bookmarks dialog showing a list of the bookmarked pages, like in the screenshot below.

	rel://files/BookmarksExample1.png

The dialog can be used to jump to one of the listed pages by either:
	* navigating to it's link in the list using the cursor keys and pressing Enter
	* selecting it with the mouse and clicking OK
	* double clicking it with the mouse

	----
++++ Navigating using the "views tree".
Since the bookmark attribute ís a page attribute and all page attributes in principle form an alternative index into the wiki pages, also bookmarks form such an index. As soon as any page in a wiki becomes bookmarked, a new index "bookmarked" will appear in the views tree, listing all the bookmarked pages.

	rel://files/BookmarksExample2.png

You can go to any bookmarked page by simply clicking it's node in the bookmarked index.

	----
++++ Removing bookmarks
There is no automatic function to remove a bookmark from a page. To "unbookmark" a page, you will have to remove the bookmark attribute manually.

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
[help.status:done]