++ Command Line Support
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Wikidpad (still) supports two types of commandline suport:
	* the older simple format.
	* a newer extended format with more possibilities.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Simple format
++++ General
In the old simple format up to two command line parameters are allowed; these should not have a leading hyphen "-". The parameters have the following meaning:

&bull; *First parameter*
Specifies a wiki to be opened; the parameter can either be:
	* the path to the .wiki configuration file in the [WikiFiles |wiki's directory],
	* a path to a .wiki page file in the [WikiFiles |wiki's data directory],
	* a Url for the wiki, using the [LinksWikis |wiki: scheme] (= protocol)
	
&bull; *Second parameter*
Specifies the name of a wiki page to be opened at startup, if it is not already specified in the first parameter.
	----
++++ Examples
&bull; Opening a wiki, with the default page, using the path to the .wiki config file
&nbsp; "...\\WikidPad.exe" "D:\\WikidPad\\Help\\help.wiki" [1].

&bull; Opening a wiki, with a specified page using both parameters
&nbsp; "...\\WikidPad.exe" "D:\\WikidPad\\Help\\help.wiki" "Page history"

&bull; Opening a wiki, with a specified page using only the first parameter
&nbsp; "...\\WikidPad.exe" "D:\\WikidPad\\Help\\help.wiki\\Page history.wiki"

&bull; Opening a wiki, with an anchor "here" on a specified page using a wiki url
&nbsp; "\wiki:///D|/WikidPad/Help/help.wiki?page=Page%20history&anchor=here"

[:rel:top]
[1] _The path to the wikidpad executable is not written out in full, but should for instance for windows be something like: "C:\\Program Files\\WikidPad\\WikidPad.exe"_
----
+++ Extended format
++++ General
The new extended format allows the specification of more then two parameters, using "switches" that identify the "parameter type" used. It supports two switch formats:
	1. the short format, consisting of a hyphen "-" and a character, like "-h".
	2. the long format, consisting of two hyphens "--" and a name, like "--help".
*Remarks*
	* The long format is available for all parameters, the short format only for a few of them.
	* The parameter "switch" must be separated from the parameter "value" by a space.
	* Some parameters allow additional options, that must then follow the parameter on the command line.
	----
++++ General parameters
&bull; *-h, --help*
Shows a message box with a short overview of available switches.
_example:_ "...\\WikidPad.exe" -h

&bull; *-w, --wiki  <wiki path>*
Set the wiki to open on startup; the possible values are the same as for the "first parameter" of the simple format.
_example:_ "...\\WikidPad.exe" -w "D:\\WikidPad\\Help\\help.wiki"

&bull; *-p, --page <page name>*
Set the page to open on startup. This parameter is the same as the second parameter of the simple form; it can however be repeated multiple times, to open multiple pages in multiple tabs.
_example:_ "...\\WikidPad.exe" --wiki "D:\\WikidPad\\Help\\help.wiki" --page "\ThisWiki" "\IntroWiki" "\HelpWiki".

&bull; *--rebuild*
Rebuild the wiki to be opened. See also: [WikiControl]
_example:_ "...\\WikidPad.exe" --wiki "D:\\WikidPad\\Help\\help.wiki" --rebuild

&bull; *-x, --exit*
Exit immediately after command line actions were completed.
_example:_ See export example.
	----
++++ Export parameters
These parameters allow to export all or part of a wiki's pages. The parameters form a set; the first three listed must all be specified, the fourth (--export-compfn) is optional. See also: [ItemPublishing] and [Wiki export].

&bull; *--export-what <what>*
Specifies the items to be exported; the choice can be either:
	* "page": a single - specified - page
	* "subtree": the whole subtree of a - specified - page
	* "wiki": all the pages of the wiki

&bull; *--export-type <type>*
Specifies the type of export to be performed; the current options are:
    * "html_single": export as a single html page
    * "html_multi": export as a set of of html pages
    * "xml": export as xml
    * "raw_files": export as a set of \*.wiki files in UTF-8 format with BOM

&bull; *--export-dest <destination path>*
Specifies the path of the destination directory for the export.

&bull; *--export-compfn*
Use compatible filenames on export.

&bull; *example:*
&nbsp;Start WikidPad, export the subtree of the page "\IntroWiki" of the wiki "Help" as a set of html pages to the directory "D:\\WikidPad\\Help\\export\\intro" and close WikidPad again.
	* &nbsp;"...\\WikidPad.exe" --wiki "D:\\WikidPad\\Help\\help.wiki" --page "\IntroWiki" --export-what "subtree" --export-type "html_multi" --export-dest "D:\\WikidPad\\Help\\export\\intro" --exit.

	----
++++ Special parameters
&bull; *--deleteconfig*
If this parameter is used, it must be the only one on the command line. It's function is to delete *without further request!* the [ConfigurationFiles |WikidPad.config] file ánd the files in the [UserFiles |.WikidPadGlobals] directory. The program is terminated immediately after this, otherwise the files would be recreated.

This switch is mainly used for the uninstallation of a Windows binary. The uninstaller prógram *will* ask before running WikidPad with this option.

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
attributes: [tree_position: 9]
[help.status:done]