++ Configuration Files
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Presently there is only one application configuration file: it's name is "WikidPad.config" and it's default location is in the WikidPad directory in the user profile. On windows that would be someplace like:
	* C:\\Documents and Settings\\ _user name_ \\Application Data\\WikidPad

	rel://files/UserConfigExample1.png rel://files/UserConfigExample2.png

It is however also possible, to move it to the WikidPad program directory; this to suport running WikidPad from a [WikidPadOnUSB |USB device].

+++ Startup
On startup WikidPad searches for "WikidPad.config" in the following locations and in the order specified:

	1. The WikidPad program directory
		* if found there, this becomes the configuration directory.
	2. The "environment variables" are searched for the variable "home"
		* if found, it's value is used for the configuration directory.
		* on Windows, open a console (= Dos-Box) and type the command "set" to list all environment variables.
	3. The operating system is asked for the "user profile" directory
		* if received, the subdirectory "WikidPad" in the profile becomes the configuration directory.
		* if it does not exist, a new directory is created and initialised.
		* this is mainly intended for windows operating systems.

+++ Where is it
You can find out where the configuration directory is, by starting WikidPad and selecting Help / About in the main menu. This will bring up the "About" dialog. In it, the configuration directory in use is specified at the bottom of the text, together with the [WikiDatabase |database type] of the current wiki.

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
[help.status:done]