++ Demo Links Url
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
To create a link to an external item, the default HTML URL can be used, with the format:
    * scheme://host.domain:port/path/filename [1].
Wikidpad supports the general [DemoLinksUrlSchemes|schemes]: http, https, ftp and file[2]. This means that those links can be defined, by simply typing or pasting them into your page; example:
    * http://www.w3schools.com/html/html_url.asp
Wikidpad supports two further links types of it's own, that are shaped as separate schemes:
    * wiki: used for linking to other (wikidpad) wiki's; see also [DemoLinksWikis|External links: Wiki's].
    * rel: to make linking with relative path's possible; see [DemoLinksUrl|Relative paths]!RelPaths below.
Due to it's nature, Wikidpad cannot use relative paths until a page is exported/published to HTML. The reason for this, is that during preview it's not the wiki folder, that is the "home" folder, but the Wikidpad program folder or the temp folder. [3]

A absolute file URL can be quickly created, by using the menu item: "Editor / Add file URL"

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Link titles
++++ As text
As in a standard HTML page, a link text can - in preview and HTML export - be replaced by a link title, that then serves as a clickable synonym for the link. For that the link has to be enclosed in square brackets and the link and title text have to be separated by a "|" character. Example:
    *  [http://www.w3schools.com/html/html_url.asp |W3 Schools: URL's]

    ----
++++ As images
As in a standard HTML page, a link text can - in preview and HTML export - be replaced by an image, that then serves as a clickable synonym for the link. For that the link has to be enclosed in square brackets and the link and the image specification have to be separated by a "|" character. Example:
    *  [http://www.w3schools.com/html/html_url.asp |rel://files/w3schools.gif>am]   W3 Schools: URL's
The image specification has the general form of a URL, with the possibility to add image formatting attributes; see [DemoTextImages|Textformatting: Images] for more information on specifying image links.

[:rel:top]
Footnotes:
[1] _See http://www.w3schools.com/html/html_url.asp for more information on url's_
[2] _Scheme is sometimes also referred to as "protocol"_
[3] _This means that you can also not use relative paths within html elements, like in the src="..." attribute for an image element. In order for them to show up in preview correctly, you háve to use absolute paths or a wikidpad rel rel link._
----
+++ Files
anchor:RelPaths
++++ Relative paths
[:page:DemoFilesRelativePathsIp]
    ----
++++ File store
[:page:DemoFilesWikiFileStoreIp]

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Remarks
    * 

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Todo's
done.demo.projectdemo.demo1: check out all posibilities

question.demo.development: Does wikidpad supports other schemes then: http, https, ftp and file (and img)?

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Results

[demo.status.waiting:question]
[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
inserts:&nbsp;&nbsp; [DemoFilesRelativePathsIp]; [DemoFilesWikiFileStoreIp]
attributes: [tree_position:1]