++ Demo Signal Todo Tags
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Todo tags are a type of [DemoSignalUserTags|user tags] and have roughly the same goal and possibilities. The main difference is, that they don't need square brackets and consist of a limited number of predevined key words. Furthermore they are aimed at adding a descriptive text to the tag. Todo tags do not support global attributes.

As with user tags, todo tags show up as nodes in the views section. A page can have multiple todo tags and a todo tag can be on multiple pages.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Format
The general format is: "keyword: free text". The keywords are restricted to the following list:

<<|
\todo | something that has to be done.
\done | something that has been done.
\action | something that needs action.
\track | something that needs to be tracked.
\issue | an issue that needs to be solved.
\question&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | a question that needs to be answered&nbsp.;&nbsp;&nbsp;
\project | something that is part of a project.
>>
<br />
Todo tags can be anywhere on a page and anywhere within a line; they can be on a line of there own or in the middle of a line of text. The tags are case sensitive and have to be written as in the list; Todo: will not result in a tag. The todo text - the text following the tag - ends either with a newline or with a vertical bar "|". The escape character can be used to escape either the tag or the bar.

*Examples*
	* todo: Demo: write a page on todo tags.
	* done: Demo: written a page on user tags
	* Wikidpad is Vista compatible todo: Demo: check if vista compatible is true | and also runs on Linux and Mac.
	* question: Demo: how is todo exported? | possibly already answered in wikidpadhelp.wiki
	* The song is on \track: 5 of the Beatles collection cd.

	rel://files/SignalTodoTagsExample1.png
[:rel:top]
----
+++ Structured tags
Like user tags, todo tags support nested subcategories in the form of structured todo keywords. Example:
	* todo.demo.demo.system.bugs.urgent: Bug in wikidpad "rename link".
	* todo.demo.demo.system.software.update: Update wikidpad to new beta release.

The double ".demo.demo" had to be added, to keep the example away from the demo's actual todo tags in this wiki, that dó have a real meaning.
	rel://files/SignalTodoTagsExample2.png
[:rel:top]
----
+++ Todo node signalling
The appearance of a single todo item in the views section can be controled by using the formatting attributes: icon, color and bold in the tag's text. Example:
	* todo.demo.demo.format.icon: [icon:exclamation]Show the exclamation icon.
	* todo.demo.demo.format.color: [color: coral]Show the text in bold orange.[bold:true]
For the format of the attributes see: [DemoSignalPageNodes|Signalling page nodes].
	rel://files/SignalTodoTagsExample3.png
[:rel:top]
----
+++ Page signalling
Todo tags did at one point have global attributes, that allowed to have nodes of pages, that have certain tags or belong to certain tag groups, to stand out and/or be signalled in some way. This facility has been deactivated quite some time ago and will not be reactivated.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Remarks
    * Formatted todo nodes in views show the formatting attributes in the text; is this meant to be?
    * Global page signalling of todo items does not work!

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Todo's
done.demo.projectdemo.demo3: check out all posibilities
done.demo.projectdemo.demo3: check with development about global page signalling
question.demo.development: is it correct that formatting attributes are shown in views / todo nodes?

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Results
issue.demo.solved:  Global page signalling of todo items does not work!
This is correct; it has been deactivated long time ago, but not removed from the help.wiki

[demo.status.waiting: question]
[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]