++ Demo Page Page Titles
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
For new pages a title is automatically created by Wikidpad. If and how that is done, can be controled with a number of options. 

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Options: Wiki settings
Wiki settings options can be found in: menu / Wiki / Options / "Current wiki".
++++ "Wikiword to title"
This option controls íf and how a title is generated. The option has three settings:

	<<|
*Setting* | *Meaning* | *link name* | *title*
No title | Don't generate a title |\DemoPageLink| None
As is | Use the link name for the title as it is. |\DemoPageLink| \DemoPageLink
Add spaces | Insert spaces into the link name in front of each uppercase letter |\DemoPageLink| Demo Page Link
>>

	[:rel:top]
	----
++++ "Use link title if present"
This setting is an extention to the "Wikiword to title" setting. Íf a page title is to be generated and íf the originating link has a link title, then the link title is to be used for the page title instead of the link name.

*Example*
If the link that led to a page-to-be-created was: \[\DemoPageLink|Demo page title], then the page title would not be based on "\DemoPageLink" but on "\Demo page title".

	[:rel:top]
	----
++++ "Title prefix"
The page title is defined as a heading with a certain level. The level can be controled with the "Title prefix" option. The number of plus signs that is entered in the option field, is the number of plus signs that will be used for the heading level of the page title. When Wikidpad is first installed, the default level is "++".

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Remarks
    * "Use link title if present" does not appear to work; can't get it to do anything.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Todo's
done.demo.projectdemo.demo2: check out all posibilities
action.demo.development: check out "Use link title if present"
Partly solved; the problem is in the combination with the use of templates.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Results
issue.demo.new: "Use link title if present" does not work.

[demo.status.waiting: issues]
[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]