++ Demo Text Html External
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]<br /><br />
*Attention:* These examples realy do not work in internal preview!
----
+++ Font styles
The external rederers allow for the full range of possibilities of the style attribute.
	* Text with <del>deleted</del> and <ins>inserted</ins> parts.
	* <sub>sub</sub>script and <sup>super</sup>script text.
	* Text with <span style="background-color: #ff0">yellow highlight</span>.
	* Text with <span style='color:blue; '>the blues</span>.
	* Text with <span style="color:blue">the blues <span style="background-color: #ff0">and yellow highlight</span></span>
	* Text with <span style="color: Navy; background-color: #ffd; font-family: times; font-variant: small-caps; border-style: dashed; border-width: 1">more style stuff.</span>

For a list and explanation of all style attributes, see: <a href="http://www.w3schools.com/css/css_outline.asp"><span style="color: White; background-color: Green; border-style: outset; border-width: 2; padding: 1; text-decoration: none"> W3 Schools: CSS outline </span></a>

For a complete list of html color names and numbers see: <a href="http://www.w3schools.com/tags/ref_colornames.asp"><span style="color: White; background-color: Green; border-style: outset; border-width: 2; padding: 1; text-decoration: none"> W3 Schools: Color reference </span></a>

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Paragraphs
<p>This is default paragraph formatting</p>
<p style="color: Navy; background-color: #ffd; font-variant: small-caps; width: 40%; border-style: inset; border-width: 1; margin-left: 25">This is text<br />in a styled paragraph</p>
<p>This is default paragraph formatting again</p>
[:rel:top]
----
+++ Div element
<div style="float: right; background-color: #ffd; width: 40%; border: 1px #8CACBB solid">
<h5 style="color: Navy; text-align:center; margin: 1">Note title h5</h5>
<hr style="height: 1px; background-color: #8CACBB; color: #8CACBB" />
<p style="margin: 1; text-align:center">This is a note of somekind,<br/> that needs to stand out on the page.</p>
</div>A note in a<br />floating:right div element.<br />

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Pre element
Code in a \<pre element
<pre style="background-color: #F7F9FA; border: 1px #8CACBB dashed; padding: 4px; width: 80%; margin: 2; margin-left: 15">
Var
    text    string              ; see TextVariable
    count   longInt
    list    dynArray[]string
endVar
</pre>
[:rel:top]
----
+++ Textarea element
Text in a textArea
<textarea style="background-color: #F7F9FA; margin: 0,8" rows="2" cols="20">This is a long list of words that doesn't need to be completely visible all the time so it may be scrollable </textarea>*Remark:* You can't use HTML or links in a textArea!

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Textarea and pre element
Code in a textArea within a \<pre section
<pre style="margin: 0,8"><textarea style="background-color: #F7F9FA; border: 1px #8CACBB dashed; padding: 4px" rows="6" cols=90%>
Method \CarCount()

Var
    count   longInt
    cars    tCursor
endVar

count = longInt(0)
cars.open("cars.db")
scan cars
    :   count = count +longInt(1)
endScan
msgInfo("Carcount", "There are " +string(count) +" cars in the table")
cars.close()

return</textarea></pre>
[:rel:top]
----
+++ Remarks
    * Template remark

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Todo's
done.demo.projectdemo.demo2: check out all sorts of posibilities
\action.demo.textformatting.htmlelements.external: template action

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Results

[demo.status:done]
[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]<br />
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]<br />
attributes: [paragraph_mode:true]