++ Folding
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Folding is a well known technique in programming editors, but it is also useful for large structured pages in WikidPad.

Folding means to hide or show a logical group of text lines when clicking on a particular sign in the editor (usually a plus or minus sign). In WikidPad this logical grouping is done by the headings.

	rel://files/WorkSpaceExample4.png
    
First, to show the folding symbol use "Show folding" in the "Folding" menu. You will see an additional margin on the left of the editor window and a minus sign to the left of each heading (meaning "unfolded").

If you now click on one of the signs, all normal text below it until the next heading with same or higher level (+ is higher than ++ is higher than +++ and so on) is hidden and the minus becomes a plus (meaning folded). A second click reverts the situation. Instead of clicking you can also select "toggle current folding" in the "Folding" menu.

The functions "Unfold All" and "Fold All" in the "Folding" menu (un-)fold all parts in the current text editor.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Functions
	_NB: The folding bar to the left of the text supports a context menu with the same functions as the folding menu._
++++ Menu
	*Folding*
	----
&bull; *Toggle current folding*
Switches the folding of the current section - where the cursor is in - on or off.

&bull; *Unfold all*
Unfolds all the sections of the page.

&bull; *Fold all*
Folds all the sections of the page.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Settings
++++ Menu
[:page:MenuFolding]

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
[help.status:done]