++ Intro 6: Signalling
Contents:	[:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General 
Pages can be signalled in the page tree to have a certain content or a certain status or whatever it is you want a page node to reflect about the page. This can either be done on page level or on tag - i.e. attribute - level.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Page level
The appearance of a single page node can be altered by adding page node attributes to the page in question. The following attributes:
	* \[icon: folder]
	* \[color: gold]
	* \[bold: true]
change the appearance of this page's node as in the screenshot below. You can connect any meaning you like to the individual colors and icons you use for your pages. For more information on page signalling see: [SignalPageNodes |Page signalling: signal page nodes].

	rel://files/intro/SignallingExample1.png

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Tag level
It is also possible to change a node's appearance based on user tags or other attributes it has attached. As an example; when designing these intro pages, each primary page had a tag attached of the format:
	* \[intro.status: _value_]
whereby the value could be things like: "new", "busy", "check", "question", or "issues". In the IntroSettings page global (wiki wide) "attribute properties" were set, that made the page's nodes at a certain point in time appear in the page tree, like in the screenshot below.

	rel://files/intro/SignallingExample2.png

Each different color showed which status each of the pages had and thus: where things still had te be done. The nodes with the altered icons depicted pages with questions and issues that had to be dealt with. More on this subject can be found in: [SignalUserTags |Page signalling: signal user tags].

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Fun level
The way your page nodes look doesn't háve to mean something. You can simply use colors and all sorts of different icons because you are a bright and colorfull person and like the look of a bright and colorfull screen.

<p align=center>[Intro5Indexing |&laquo; Previous page]&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[Intro7Searching |Next page &raquo;]</p>----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
attributes: [tree_position: -1]
[intro.status:done]