++ Item Publishing
Contents:	[:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
WikidPad can publish wiki pages to html pages that can be viewed with standard browsers like Firefox, Opera and Internet Explorer. Publishing can be done to a single html page or a set of html pages or one wiki page at a time.

To publish all or part of a wiki you can select predefined "Wiki / Export" functions from the main menu:
	* Export Wiki As Single Html Page
	* Export Wiki As Set of Html Pages
	* Export Current Wiki Word As Html Page
	* Export Sub-tree As Single Html Page
	* Export Sub-tree As Set of Html Pages
These functions use the default settings as described below in "Settings". To override these settings or specify a different page collection, select "Other export ..." from the menu. This will bring up the export dialog window. The functions wíll however ask you for the destination directory.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ The dialog window
Publishing pages to html is at this moment combined with "DataExchange" into one integral export function. Both functions use the same dialog window. The options relevant to html publishing are:

&bull; *What to export*
Specifies what you want to publish; the possible choices are:
	* All pages in the wiki.
	* All pages in the current subtree (the current page and it's children).
	* Current page only.
	* Custom subset of wiki pages.
Choosing "Custom" will bring up the [PageListDialog |page list dialog], where the subset can be defined.

&bull; *Export to*
Specifies to whát the pages should be published; the possible choices are:
	* one single html page for the whole wiki
	* one html page per wiki page

&bull; *Compatible filenames*
Specifies whether to use ASCII-only filenames for the html files, so that they can be transferred to other filesystems without compatibility issues [1].

&bull; *Shows pics as links in export*
Overrides the default application setting; see "Settings" below.

&bull; *Table of contents*
Overrides the default application setting; see "Settings" below.

&bull; *Destination file/directory*
Specify the folder where the generated html files should be stored. Overrides the default wiki setting; see "Settings" below.

*Remark:*
All files in the [FilesWikiFileStore |File Store] that are referenced by the exportes pages using the relative Url "\rel://" are copied to a "files" directory in the destination directory. This also applies to files in subdirectories of the file store directory. If these directories don't exist, WikidPad will create them.

[:rel:top]
[1] _On Windows XP and Server 2003 platforms the \AppLocale utility might also be of help with export problems; see:_ http://www.microsoft.com/globaldev/tools/apploc.mspx.
----
+++ Settings
++++ Attributes
	*Page attributes*
	----
&bull; *\[export: false]*
Excludes a page from being exported to html. "false" is the only possible value for this attribute.

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Options
[:page:WikiOptionsExport]

[:rel:top]
----
[:page:WpOptionsHtmlExport]

[:rel:top]
----
[:page:WpOptionsHtmlHeader]

[:rel:top]

----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
attributes: [tree_position: 12]
[help.status:done]