++ KeyBindings
[:toc:]<br />
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Wikidpad is installed with a number of predefined key bindings or "shortcut keys", as listed below. Many of these key bindings may be changed.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Default setting
++++ Workspace
+++++ General
	<<|
Ctrl-Shift-T | show / hide toolbar
Ctrl-T | show / hide main tree
F6 | switch cursor between main tree and page window
>>

+++++ Page window
	<<|
Ctrl-+ | zoom in
Ctrl-- | zoom out
Ctrl-Tab | switch between tabbed pages
Ctrl-Shift-A | switch current tab to edit mode
Ctrl-Shift-S | switch current tab to preview mode
Ctrl-Shift-Space | switch current tab between edit and preview mode
Ctrl-F4 | close current tab
>>

+++++ Editor
	<<|
Ctrl-Z | Undo
Ctrl-Y | Redo
Ctrl-X | Cut
Ctrl-C | Copy
Ctrl-Alt-C | Copy to scratchPad
Ctrl-V | Paste
>>

	<<|
Ctrl-B | make bold
Ctrl-I | make italic
Ctrl-Alt-H | make heading
Ctrl-Alt-D | insert current date/time
Ctrl-W | rewrap text at position
>>

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Wiki
+++++ Wiki Control
	<<|
Ctrl-N | open new Wiki
Ctrl-Alt-O | open existing Wiki
Ctrl-P | print current Wiki
>>

+++++ Wiki page
	<<|
Ctrl-Alt-R | rename current page
Ctrl-S | save current page
Ctrl-D | delete current page
Ctrl-Shift-Q | set current page as Root page
Ctrl-Shift-UP | show parentless pages
|
Ctrl-Shift-R | Create new page from selected text
Ctrl-J | Create page link from selected text
Ctrl-Space | Auto complete link (or attribute)
>>

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Navigation
+++++ Page
	<<|
Home | goto start of line
End | goto end of line
Ctrl-left | goto previous word in text
Ctrl-right | goto next word in text
Ctrl-Home | goto top of page
Ctrl-End | goto bottom of page
Page up | scroll screen up
Page down | scroll screen down
>>

+++++ Page links
	<<|
Ctrl-L | open linked page
Ctrl-Enter | open linked page
Ctrl-ALT-L | open linked page in a new tab
Ctrl-O | open page
Ctrl-Q | goto Root page (Home)
Ctrl-Shift-H | goto Root page (on MAC)
>>

+++++ History
	<<|
Ctrl-H | show history
Ctrl-Alt-UP | show history, select -1
Ctrl-Alt-DOWN | show history, select +1
Alt-Left | go back in history
Alt-Right | go forward in history
>>

+++++ Relatives
	<<|
Ctrl-Up | show parents of current word
Ctrl-Down | show children of current word
>>

+++++ Bookmarks
	<<|
Ctrl-Alt-B | add a bookmark
Ctrl-Shift-B | show bookmarks
>>

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Search
+++++ Wiki
	<<|
Ctrl-Alt-F | start full search
>>

+++++ Wiki page
	<<|
Ctrl-F | start incremental search, perform next search
F3 | start incremental search, perform next search
Shift-F3 | incremental search, perform next search, backward
Ctrl-R | start find & replace
>>

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Scripts
	<<|
Ctrl-E | execute all eval scripts
Ctrl-1 > 6 | execute numbered eval script
>>

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Change key bindings
++++ General
The default key bindings can be overridden by creating a custom "keybindings.py" file. To do so, copy the existing file: 
	* [ProgramFiles |wikidpad / extensions / keybindings.py] to 
	* [ProgramFiles |wikidpad / user_extensions / keybindings.py].
Create the directory if it doesn't exist. Then edit user_extensions / keybindings.py with a standard text editor to override the default key bindings. This file will not be touched when upgrading wikidPad.

In principle you should remove all the entries from the new keybindings.py, that should keep the default setting and only maintain the entries for those keybindings that you want changed. On startup WikidPad will read both files in the order:
	1. extensions / keybindings.py
	2. user_extensions / keybindings.py
and override any settings in extensions/keybindings.py with those found in user_extensions/keybindings.py. The import statement at the top of the extensions file does not have to be retained in the user_extensions file. The same is true for a number of editor scripts at the bottom of the file.
	----
++++ Keybinding format
The general entry for a keybinding is of the format:
	* \ShowTreeControl="Ctrl-T"
If you would rather use Alt+T for that function, then change the entry to
	* \ShowTreeControl="Alt-T"
Don't forget to save the file and [WorkSpaceGeneral |restart wikidpad]!RestartWikidPad to make use of the new keybindings.

----
previous: [:rel:back]<br />
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]<br />
attributes: [tree_position: 6], [paragraph_mode: true]<br />
[help.status:done]