++ Links Url
Contents:	[:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
To create a link to an external item, the default HTML URL can be used, with the format:
    * scheme://host.domain:port/path/filename [1].
Wikidpad supports the general [LinksUrlSchemes|schemes]: http, https, ftp, mailto, outlook and file [2]. This means that those links can be defined, by simply typing or pasting them into your page; example:
    * http://www.w3schools.com/html/html_url.asp
Wikidpad supports two further links types of it's own, that are shaped as separate schemes:
    * wiki: used for linking to other (wikidpad) wiki's; see also [LinksWikis|External links: Wiki's].
    * rel: to make linking with relative path's possible; see [LinksUrl|Relative paths]!RelPaths below.
Due to it's nature, Wikidpad cannot use relative paths until a page is exported/published to HTML. The reason for this, is that during preview it's not the wiki folder, that is the "home" folder, but the Wikidpad program folder or the temp folder. [3]

A absolute file URL can be quickly created, by using the menu item: "Editor / Add file URL"

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Link titles
++++ As text
As in a standard HTML page, a link text can - in preview and HTML export - be replaced by a link title, that then serves as a clickable synonym for the link. For that the link has to be enclosed in square brackets and the link and title text have to be separated by a "|" character. Example:
    *  [http://www.w3schools.com/html/html_url.asp |W3 Schools: URL's]

    ----
++++ As images
As in a standard HTML page, a link text can - in preview and HTML export - be replaced by an image, that then serves as a clickable synonym for the link. For that the link has to be enclosed in square brackets and the link and the image specification have to be separated by vertical bar "|". Example:
    *  [http://www.w3schools.com/html/html_url.asp |rel://files/w3schools.gif>am]   W3 Schools: URL's
The image specification has the general form of a URL, with the possibility to add image formatting attributes; see [TextImages|Textformatting: Images] for more information on specifying image links.

[:rel:top]
Footnotes:
[1] _See http://www.w3schools.com/html/html_url.asp for more information on url's_
[2] _Scheme is sometimes also referred to as "protocol"_
[3] _This means that you can also not use relative paths within html elements, like in the src="..." attribute for an image element. In order for them to show up in preview correctly, you háve to use absolute paths or a wikidpad rel rel link._
----
+++ Files
anchor:RelPaths
++++ Relative paths
[:page:FilesRelativePathsIp]
    ----
++++ File store
[:page:FilesWikiFileStoreIp]

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Settings
++++ Options
	*Application settings*
	----
&bull; *Dropping files*
&bull; *Dropping files with SHIFT*
&bull; *Dropping files with CTRL*
Control what should happen if you drag and drop files from explorer into the editor with no key pressed, with SHIFT pressed or with CTRL pressed.

Possible choices are:
    * Nothing
    * Absolute URL: Insert absolute URL(s) to the file(s)
    * Relative URL: URL(s) starting with "rel:"
    * Relative into storage: Copy file(s) into file storage and create relative URL(s) to it

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
inserts:&nbsp;&nbsp; [FilesRelativePathsIp]; [FilesWikiFileStoreIp]
[help.status:done]