++ Link insertions
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Wikidpad supports a number of functions, that dynamically add page links to a page in preview and html export. These link functions are generally referred to in Wikidpad as "link insertions". The available functions are:
	* rel: list page links related to a page
		* back
		* top
		* parents
		* children
		* parentless [1]
		* undefined [1]
	* savedsearch: lists page links in the result of a saved search
	* toc: creates table of contents for the page.

[:rel:top]
[1] _These don't really produce links related to a page, but show all of them_
----
+++ Format
The format of the function is in general that of a Wikidpad attribute; it's syntax is:
	* \[:_function group_: _function_; options]
Wherein the options are optional and must be separarted with a semicolon ";". The available options are:
	* aslist
	* collumns _number_
	* existingonly
The options "aslist" and "collumn" are only applicable to those functions, that produce a list of multiple page links. They define how the list is to be generated:
	* aslist: as a list of comma+space separated link names
	* columns: as _number_ collumns accross the page
If these options are ommitted, the default is: 1 collumn. Existingonly is only applicable to "rel:children"

[:rel:top]
----
+++ rel
This function group originally creates links, that are somehow related to the page it is on; this is not all together true anymore.
	----
++++ back
The function \[:rel: back] creates a link "Back", that when clicked, activates the Wikidpad "back" function (Alt-left) and moves one page back in history. I.e. it moves back to the page you just came from. Applicable options are: none.

*Examples*
See the "Back" links at the top and bottom of this page.
	----
++++ top
The function \[:rel: top] creates a link "Top", that when clicked, moves the page display to the top of the page. Applicable options are: none.

*Examples*
See the various "Top" links on this page.
	----
++++ parents
The function \[:rel: parents] creates a list of one or more page links of pages that refer to the current page. Applicable options are: aslist and collumns.

*Remark*
It the page has a link on it, that refers to an anchor within itself, then the name of the page itself also appears in the parents list.

*Example*
\[:rel: parents] results in: [:rel: parents]
	----
++++ children
The function \[:rel: children] creates a list of the pages that the current page refers to. Applicable options are: aslist, collumns and existingonly. When the option "existingonly" is used, the links to undefined pages are not shown.

*Examples*
Links used in the examples: ([WikidPad] WikiWords, [Case link], UndefinedPage, UndefinedPageToo)

\[:rel: children; aslist] results in:
[:rel: children]

\[:rel: children; existingonly; columns 2] results in:
[:rel: children; existingonly; columns 2]
	----
++++ parentless
The function \[:rel: parentless] creates a list of all the pages, that are parentless. Applicable options are: aslist and collumns.
	----
++++ undefined
The function \[:rel: undefined] creates a list of all the pages, that are undefined. Applicable options are: aslist and collumns.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ saved search
The function \[:savedsearch: _searchname_] creates a list of all the page links, that were saved as a result of a search. Function in this case is the name of the saved search. Applicable options are: aslist and collumns.

*Examples*
\[:savedsearch: Case link; columns 4] (all pages containing "Case link") produces:
[:savedsearch: Case link; columns 4]

[:rel:top]
----
anchor:tocFunction
+++ table of contents
The function \[:toc:] creates a table of contents for the headings of the current page, like the one on top of this page. In HTML preview/export the toc entries can be clicked on to move the display to the concerning heading. This function only has a function group, no function. Applicable options are: none.

*Examples*
See the toc on top of this page.

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
attributes: [tree_position: 11]
[help.status:done]