++ Page Form Templates
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Sometimes, especially when dealing with templates, there might be a need for pages, where all that needs to be done, is to fill in a number of specific fields. The need for forms with a fill-in-the-blanks facility. Wikidpad supports this with form pages. A form page is any wikidpad page and can have any content on it, together with a number of \&&i tags. These \&&i tags depict the places where some value has te be typed; i.e. they depict the "input fields".

A form page is specified, by adding a \[pagetype: form] attribute to it. This effectively changes the behaviour of the tab key from it's standard function to a "skip to the next \&&i tag" function. This happens only on the active page and only in the editor; nót in preview. Due to their use, form pages must be seen as an extention to [PagePageTemplates| template pages].

*Remarks*
	* In form pages, the normal function of the tab key is not evailable! This can be something of a inconvenience when editing either the form template itself or the non-field content of a generated form page. The only way out of this is to - temporarily - disable the form attribute, by preceding it with a backslash.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Example
This example uses the template example as a basis and extends that; contact pages are a particularly usefull example for form pages. The contact template can easily be changed into a contact form, like this:
	_\PageContactForm_
	----
	\----
	Name:	\&&i
	Adress:	\&&i
	Phone:	\&&i
	Mobile:	\&&i
	eMail:	\&&i

	Remarks:
	\&&i
	\----
	\previous: [:rel:back]
	\attributes: *[pagetype: form]*
	----
If this form would have been the template for PageContactParent, then adding the new contact "\Contact \JasonHorman" to the list, the resulting page will look like this:
	_\Contact \JasonHorman_
	----
	*++ Contact Jason Horman*
	\----
	Name:	\&&i
	Adress:	\&&i
	Phone:	\&&i
	Mobile:	\&&i
	eMail:	\&&i

	Remarks:
	\&&i
	\----
	\previous: [:rel:back]
	\attributes: [pagetype: form]
	----

The \&&i tag behind "Name" would be selected and can be replaced by just typing the name. Pressing the Tab key would move the cursor to the "Adress" \&&i tag and select that. Simply tab your way through the tags and fill in Jason Hormans specifics.

*Remarks*
	* Another example of a form is the \SystemInfoTemplate in the help pages, to be used when sending in a bug report.

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
templates: PageContactForm
[help.status:done]