++ Page history
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Per tabbed page, WikidPad maintains a history of the wiki pages that have been visited. This function can be used to quickly navigate back and forth to earlier visited pages.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ History dialog
++++ General
You can call up a dialog window that shows the page history by:
	* pressing Ctrl-H.
	* selecting "History / List History" from the main menu.
The image below shows a screenshot of the history window with the link names of the pages that have been visited.
	rel://files/HistoryExample1.png
The history dialog can be used to jump to one of the listed pages by either:
	* navigating to it's link in the list using the cursor keys and pressing Enter
	* selecting it with the mouse and clicking OK
	* double clicking it with the mouse

	----
++++ Alternatives
An alternative way to call up the history dialog is:
	* pressing Ctrl-Alt-Up
	* selecting "History / Up History" from the main menu
This will show the history dialog with the previous page already selected. All it needs to navigate there, is to press Enter.

It's counterpart is formed by:
	* pressing Ctrl-Alt-Down
	* selecting "History / Down History" from the main menu
This will show the history dialog with the next page already selected.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ History functions
++++ General
A quick way to navigate óne page backwards or forwards in history is by using the "back" and "forward" functions, as they also exist in the average browser.
	----
++++ Back
To move óne page back in history:
	* press Alt-Left (arrow)
	* click the rel://files/tb_back.gif button on the toolbar
	* select "History / Back" from the main menu

	----
++++ Forward
To move óne page forward in "history":
	* press Alt-Right (arrow)
	* click the rel://files/tb_forward.gif button on the toolbar
	* select "History / Forward" from the main menu

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
[help.status:done]