++ Text Tables
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
In Wikidpad tables can be used. For the time being however, this remains limited to the default html table style. No formatting facilities are available for tables.

A table is defined inside a table block; a construct analogous to the escape blocks (see [DemoTextEscape|Textformatting: Escape]). A table block is defined by the "\<\<|" and "\>\>" start and ending tags. These tags must be alone on an otherwise empty line; you cán however put a tab in front of the opening tag, to indent the table. Each line of text in the block forms a table row, individual cells in the row are separated by a vertical bar (" | "). Example:

	<<|
row 1 | cell | cell | cell
row 2 | cell | cell | cell
>>

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Formatting cell content
In a table cell the following formatting elements can be used:
	<<|
Bold text | *bold*
Italic text |  _italics_
Images | rel://files/library64.png
Page links | [TextTables|Top]!Top
Web links | http://www.w3schools.com/
File links | rel://files/license.txt
Wiki links | [wiki:///C|/Documents%20and%20Settings/foowiki/foowiki.wiki | rel://files/wordpad.png>am]    Foowiki with an image title
Footnotes | This is text with a footnote [1].
Page insertions | See [TextInsertionsTextFormatting|Textformatting: insertions]
[HtmlFormatting|Html elements] | <small>HTML small tekst, </small><br />HTML standard tekst, <br /><big>HTML big tekst</big>
>>


	<<|
Wikidpad elements that can nót be used inside tables are:
<ul>\
<li>Lists</li>\
<li>Headings</li>\
<li>Horizontal lines&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</li>\
<li>Escape blocks</li>\
<li>Link insertions</li>\
<li>Attributes</li></ul><small>Done with html.</small>
>>

[:rel:top]
[1] _This is footnote 1._
----
+++ Multi line cell content
The content of a cell can be split over two or more lines, by breaking it up over as many page lines and separating the line parts by a backslash. An example in this case, tells more then text can:

	<<|
row 1 | cell 1, line 1\
cell 1, line 2\
cell 1, line 3 | cell2 | cell 3, line 1\
cell 3, line 2
row 2| cell 1 | cell 2, line 1\
cell 2, line 2 | cell 3
>>

In the above example the definition for row 1 effectively has been split over 4 consecutive page lines, resulting in a not all together easy-reference structure. An easier way would be to simply add a few html "\<br /\>" tags in the cell content, to break it up; like this:

	<<|
row 1 | cell 1, line 1<br />cell 1, line 2<br />cell 1, line 3 | cell2 | cell 3, line 1<br />cell 3, line 2
row 2| cell 1 | cell 2, line 1<br />cell 2, line 2 | cell 3
>>

View this section in the editor, to see the difference in structure and reference.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Tab as cell delimiter
As an alternative, also the Tab can be used as cell delimiter. To use this, start the table block with the "\<\<|t" tag instead of the "\<\<|" tag. Example:

	<<|t
row 1	cell	cell	cell
row 2	cell	cell	cell
>>

*Important!*
This facility can only be used, when the option: menu / Editor / Settings / "Tabs to spaces" is not switch on.
A table cell can contain wiki word links, bold and italic text. 

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
[help.status:done]