++ This Wiki
Contents: [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ Help version 1.0
This is version 1.0 of the help.wiki; a restructured, rewritten and extended version of the wikidpadhelp.wiki. It is up to date for WikidPad version 1.9 beta 19.

*Changes 1.0 compared to 0.6*
	* typo's, layout, etc.
	* [TextLists]
	* [KeyBindings] (changed and moved to [WikidPadReferences])
	* [Scripts]
	* [WikiSyntax]

[:rel:top]
----
+++ WikidPad version
This wiki utilises the "link insertions":
	* \[:rel:back]
	* \[:rel:top]
and the "link insertion" parameter:
	* "aslist"
that are only available in version 1.9 beta 18.5 and higher.
The wiki cán however be used with earlier versions, without any problems.

The wiki has been designed with the external [ThePreview |preview renderer] IE; it might not look ideal in the internal preview renderer here and there.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Examples and escapes
This wiki contains numerous examples of how to do things. Often however you can't get things to look correct both in [Intro2ViewingAndEditing |Preview] ánd in [Intro2ViewingAndEditing |Edit] mode. A choice therefore had te be made and Preview has been chosen as the prime presentation mode for this wiki. The editable text of examples therefore can contain [SyntaxEscape |escape tags] to get them to look correct in preview. So when in doubt about an example, switch to preview mode since that shows it's only correct presentation.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Tree icons
This wiki uses a small number of icons, that are not yet available in WikidPad's default set. These icons are:

	* rel://icons/wp_home.gif : wp_home
	* rel://icons/wp_settings.gif : wp_settings
	* rel://icons/wp_template.gif : wp_template
	* rel://icons/bullet%20red.gif : bullet red
	* rel://icons/flag%20red.gif : flag red

They can be found in the "icons" folder of this wiki and can be made available by copying them into the "icons" subfolder of your [ProgramFiles |WikidPad program] folder. In the various screenshots in this wiki you will see examples of other icons, that aren't in the current WikidPad icon set. They will however become available in the upcoming version (2.0) of WikidPad. In the mean time they are available as the additional WP_FreeIcons download on the [http://wikidpad.sourceforge.net/ |WikidPad website]. Be aware however that a lot of the original icons aren't in this set anymore.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Enjoy
I hope this wiki will help you find your way in WikidPad and enjoy it for the great program that it is.

Jan Stegehuis

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
attributes: [tree_position:1], [view_pane: preview]