++ Using brackets
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Instead of using camelcased wikiwords you can create links, by enclosing one or more regular words in square brackets ("\[" and "\]"), like \[Wikiwords] or \[Wiki words] or \[What is a wikiword] giving [Wikiwords], [Wiki words] or [What is a wikiword] respectively.

When you type the closing bracket, the phrase is automatically turned into a link and becomes underlined. Links that already have content, like [Wiki word] turn blue, links that do not, like [Undefined page], stay black but are underlined. If this does not happen, then the link contains an illegal character.

For eacht new link, a new (empty) page is automatically created. To go there and add your text, type Ctrl+L when the cursor is at the start, in the middle or at the end of the link or double click on the link with the mouse.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Link titles
Links can have titles attached to them. In preview mode, exported HTML, etc. it is then the title that is displayed and functions as the link and not the page link itself. The title text must be separated from the page link by a vertical bar "|", like in \[Case link|A link to the case item] that results in [Case link|A link to the case item], but still links to [Case link].
This way you can also create "links" with otherwise illegal characters, like e.g. filenames:  [UserProfile|C:\\Application\\User.ini].

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Syntax
++++ Naming rules
The characters allowed in a link are A-Z, a-z, 0-9, space, hyphen "-" and underscore "\_". All other characters exclude a phrase from being accepted as a link.
	----
++++ Case sensitivity
Links are case sensitive; [Case link] is a different link from [Case Link] and therefore links to a different item.[3]
	----
++++ Titles
Link titles can contain any character but for those that have a special meaning to Wikidpad, like "\|", "\*" and "\\", unless the [SyntaxEscape|escape character]!EscapeCharacter is used.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Auto link recognition
The editor can be set to allow recognition of non-camelcase page links in normal text without having to use the brackets, using the \[global.auto_link: _value_] attribute. The supported values are:

    * off: Switch off recognition
    * relax: Recognition is case-insensitive and maps arbitrary
      non alpha-numeric characters in text to white spaces in the
      wiki word.

When active, a text like "Using: the treeview" is recognized as the page link [Using the treeview].

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Preventing link generation
++++ Occasionally
To show a phrase in brackets as regular text and prevent it from being interpreted as a link, you can precede it with the [SyntaxEscape|escape character]!EscapeCharacter ("\\"), like in: \\\[Wiki Word].
	----
++++ Overruling the blacklist
Camelcased words in the blacklist can still be used as links, by putting them in brackets. An example is the word WikidPad, that is in the Wiki blacklist, but with brackets \[WikidPad] still functions as the link: [WikidPad]. This also works with titles like \[WikidPad|this] giving [WikidPad|this].

[:rel:top]
----
[1] _A list of all empty items can found in the "Views" node as "undefined-nodes"._
[2] _Outside the editor, links to empty items are shown as regular text._
[3] _In Windows this only works with wiki's using the \SQLlight database_.
[:rel:top]
----
+++ Settings
++++ Global attributes
[:page:GlobalAttributesBracketedLinks]

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
attributes: [tree_position: 2]
[help.status:done]

