++ Wiki export
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
WikidPad can export wiki pages to
    * an XML file
    * a set of .wiki files [1]
    * a multi page text file

To export a wiki to .wiki files you can select  the predefined option:
	* "Wiki / Export / Export Wiki to .wiki files" in the main menu
This function uses default WikidPad settings. To override these settings or choose a different type of export, select "Other export ..." from the menu. This will bring up the export dialog window.

[:rel:top]
[1] _exporting to .wiki files is mainly interesting for the migration of Compact version wiki's to original version wiki's._
----
+++ The dialog window
DataExchange is at this moment combined with "Item Publishing" into one integral export function. Both functions use the same dialog window. The options relevant to data exchange are:

&bull; *What to export*
Specifies what you want to export; the possible choices are:
	* All pages in the wiki.
	* All pages in the current subtree (the current page and it's children).
	* Current page only.
	* Custom subset of wiki pages.
Choosing "Custom" will bring up the [PageListDialog |page list dialog], where the subset can be defined.

&bull; *Export to*
Controls to whát the pages should be exported; the possible choices are:
	* [XmlFormat |XML file]
	* Set of .wiki files
	* [MultipageTextFormat |Multipage text]

&bull; *Compatible filenames*
Controls whether to use ASCII-only filenames for the html files so that they can be transferred to other filesystems without compatibility issues.

	On Windows XP and Server 2003 the \AppLocale utility might also help on export problems (see http://www.microsoft.com/globaldev/tools/apploc.mspx).

&bull; *Destination file/directory*
Specify the file or folder where the generated export files should be stored.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Type specifics
++++ XML
XML has no specific setting (yet)

	----
++++ Wiki files
&bull; *Encoding*
For the .wiki export you can choose if the files should have system encoding or UTF-8 with or without BOM (byte-order mark). The import function of Compact can't recognize UTF-8 without BOM correctly.

	----
++++ Multipage text
&bull; *Version*
Choose which version the file should have. If you use version 1 it can be read only by WikidPad 1.9beta6 and later. Version 0 can also be read by earlier versions but looses information.

&bull; *Write wiki func. pages*
Store also wiki-bound functional pages in the file. Only available for format version 1 and later.

&bull; *Write saved searches*
Store also saved searches in the file. Only available for format version 1 and later.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Settings
++++ Options
[:page:WikiOptionsExport]

[:rel:top]
----
	*Application settings: Html export*
	----
&bull; *Start browser after export*
Starts the current web browser after exporting to XML.

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
[help.status:done]