++ Wp Attributes
Contents:   [:toc:]
[:rel:back]
----
+++ General
Wiki pages support "attributes" [1]. Attributes are used for two purposes:
	* to add an extra index for a page in the [TheTreeView |views tree].
	* to specify certain special wiki formatting commands.

[:rel:top]
[1] _The page has partly been assembled using page inserts; it's complete contents can only be seen in preview._
----
++++ Syntax
The general format for an attribute is:
	* \[attribute key: _attribute value_], like: \[color: Dark Slate Blue]

Multiple attributes for one page with the same key, but with different values can be combined into one multivalue attribute, separating the different values with semicolons; like:
	* \[alias: \WikidPadAttributes; \WikiAttributes; \WikiDocumentAttributes]

Attribute values can be enclosed in [QuotationCharacters |quotation characters] to allow them to contain reserved characters, e.g.
	* \[shop: "audio&video"]

Attribute keys can be composed keys with a hierarchical structure; i.e they can exist of multiple words, separated by a period&nbsp;"."; like:
	* \[html.bgcolor: #FFFFCC]

Certain system attributes have global representations, that set default values for the entire wiki that they are in. Their key is then prefixed with "global."; like:
	* \[global.html.bgcolor: #FFFFCC]
	----
++++ User defined attributes
Users can define their own attributes - key: value pairs - in order to create their own additional indexes for their pages in the views tree. For description and examples see: [SignalUserTags |Page signalling: user tags].
	----
++++ Global attribute properties
Attributes support global properties, that influence the representation of pages in the page tree. To set the properties, a variant on the attribute specification is used, like:
	* \[global.contact.personal.icon: people]
	* \[global.contact.personal.color: Coral]
	* \[global.contact.personal.bold: true]
Would set the node in the main tree of every page that has the attribute:
	* \[contact: personal]
assigned, to use the icon "people", font style bold and font color "coral".
For more comprehensive description and examples see: Page signalling: [SignalUserTags |user tags] and [SignalTodoTags |todo tags].
	----
++++ Autocompletion
The editor supports autocompletion for attributes. Type part of the attribute, press Ctrl-Space and a list with existing attribute specifications will come up. Autocompletion for attributes works exactly like [Using autocompletion |autocompletion for links]; see there for details and examples. In fact, depending on how much of the attribute text is typed, a list of both attributes ánd links will come up.

[:rel:top]
----
+++ Global attributes
This section lists the system attributes, that have global representations. They set wiki wide defaults for those attributes.

++++ Editor
[:page:GlobalAttributesEditor]

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Page linking
[:page:GlobalAttributesWikiWords]

[:page:GlobalAttributesBracketedLinks]

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Page formatting
[:page:GlobalAttributesTemplates]

[:page:GlobalAttributesPageView]

[:page:GlobalAttributesPageMisc]

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Page Signalling
[:page:GlobalAttributesPageNodes]

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Spell checking
[:page:GlobalAttributesSpellChecking]

[:rel:top]
----
++++ Plugins
[:page:GlobalAttributesStructureGraphs]

[:rel:top]
----
previous: [:rel:back]
parents:&nbsp; [:rel:parents; aslist]
attributes: [tree_position: 4]
[help.status:done]


*inserts*
[GlobalAttributesEditor]
[GlobalAttributesWikiWords]
[GlobalAttributesBracketedLinks]
[GlobalAttributesTemplates]
[GlobalAttributesPageView]
[GlobalAttributesPageMisc]
[GlobalAttributesPageNodes]
[GlobalAttributesSpellChecking]
[GlobalAttributesStructureGraphs]