++ Anchors

Anchors allow to define a particular position within any hyperlinked page, such as a WikiPage or any HTML page.
Given such anchor, a jump to that specific position may be invoked from anywhere else using an appropriate link.

Anchors for WikiPages are supported in both, edit and preview mode.
In exported HTML pages, anchors are supported using standard HTML-Syntax ("#...").


+++ Defining an Anchor and its name

Anchors are defined with the special anchor tag "anchor:", followed by the name of that anchor, as follows:

anchor: here

The anchor tag must be on a separate line by itself, no other text before or after it.

After "anchor:" you give the anchor its name.

Such name of an anchor must consist solely of:
	* letters A to Z (upper or lowercase), 
	* digits and 
	* underscore.

The name of an anchor must *not* contain spaces, nor any other special or non-English character(s).

Naturally, such name of an anchor should be unique within the page in order to avoid ambiguities.


+++ Hyperlinking to an Anchor

In order to go to a particular anchor in a wiki word, append an exclamation mark ("!") and the name of the anchor to the wiki word.
(Note: Non-camelcase wiki words must be put in brackets, as always.)

Example:

[Anchors]!here

or

TextFormatting!html

Doubleclick on such link in order to jump to the page, and having the cursor moved to the position following that anchor tag.


+++ Remarks

    * Anchors are case-sensitive. Thus, "here" and "Here" are different anchors.
    * The anchor tags are invisible in HTML preview and export.

See also [Footnotes].

[alias: PageAnchor; WikiPageAnchor]
