++ Bulleted Lists

To start a bulleted list the line must be indented with a tabulator.
After the tabulator type an asterisk followed by a space.
For example:

    * Put your cursor at the end of this line and press enter.


To start a numbered list use # instead of the asterisk (switch to preview to see the numbers):

    # Put your cursor at the end of this line and press enter.

        # Subnumber 1
        # Subnumber 2

You can also type an indented number followed by a period at the beginning of the line instead, but this is deprecated. For example:

    1. Put your cursor at the end of this line and press enter.


    15.4.3. Put your cursor at the end of this line and press enter.


You can switch off the automatic generation of bullets/numbers with the "auto-bullets" option in the "Editor" menu.

You can also switch off the automatic indentation with "auto-indent" option:

    If this line is indented and you press enter, next will be as well.


If a line has a "lonely" bullet or number on it and you press enter, the bullet is removed:

    * Put your cursor at the end of this line and press enter *twice*.


You can switch off this behavior as well in "Options" dialog, page "Editor", option "Auto-unbullets".


+++ Indenting afterwards

If you have written a list already and want to indent it (more) afterwards, select the list (at least two lines must be selected) and press TAB.

If you want to reduce indentation, press SHIFT-TAB instead.


+++ Caution

Be sure to indent your list, otherwise it is only interpreted as plain text.

Example (switch to preview to see the problem):


* Part
* of list


