++ Key Bindings On Linux And Osx

The original KeyBindings are for Windows.

Some of them don't work on Linux or Apple OSX because they are reserved by the Operating System or the Desktop Environment itself. Or due to other reasons.

Additionally the Windows' "Ctrl" key is existing on Mac OSX as well. 
At least it seems so. But in reality one has to use the "Command" key instead.

Example:
The original keybinding Ctrl-Space (Autocomplete) is technically equivalent to the key Command-Space on OSX which in fact is used to start Apple Spotlight. 
So it can't be used by WikidPad.

As described in page ChangingKeyBindings it is possible to implement workarounds.

One approach is to do that locally in "user_extensions".
But the better one may be to do it globally in the directory "extensions".

Here a list of already known problems/differences.
(The following is a bit technically for now...)

<<pre
-----------------------------------------

if wx.Platform == "__WXMSW__":
    ActivateLinkNewTab="Ctrl-Alt-L"
    ActivateLinkBackground="Ctrl-Shift-L"
else:
#elif wx.Platform == "__WXGTK__":
    # On Linux (at least with KDE) the above Windows' key bindings doesn't work
    #    "Ctrl-Alt-L"     creates character 0xFF (and is in KDE command interface)
    #    "Ctrl-Shift-L"   simply does nothing
    ActivateLinkNewTab="Alt-Shift-L"
    ActivateLinkBackground="Alt-Shift-Ctrl-L"
    # to test: What about Mac OSX?   wx.Platform == "__WXMAC__"

-----------------------------------------

if wx.Platform == "__WXMAC__":
    GoHome="Ctrl-Shift-H"
    StartIncrementalSearch="Alt-Shift-F"
    FocusFastSearchField="Alt-Shift-S"
else:
    GoHome="Ctrl-Q"
    StartIncrementalSearch="Ctrl-F"
    FocusFastSearchField="Ctrl-Shift-F"

-----------------------------------------

ShowSwitchEditorPreview="Ctrl-Shift-Space"
#if wx.Platform == "__WXMAC__":
    # no good keybinding found that works on Mac
    # ShowSwitchEditorPreview="??????"

-----------------------------------------

if wx.Platform == "__WXMAC__":
    AutoComplete="Alt-Space"
else:
    AutoComplete="Ctrl-Space"
>>
