++ Menu Wiki

++ New
Create new wiki

++ Open
Select if you want to open an existing wiki in this window, a new window or if you want to open a new window with the current wiki.

In the appearing file dialog choose the one ".wiki" file with the name of your wiki. This is the wiki configuration file.

There may be a file with the same name in the "data" directory below, but this contains the text of your wiki root page.

++ Recent
Recently opened wikis. Choosing one opens it in the same window.

++ Favorites
Favorite wikis to open, see [FavoriteWikis].

++ Search wiki
Start the dialog to search the whole wiki. See [SearchingTheWiki#+++ To search all pages].

++ Publish as HTML
You can there export your wiki or the current subtree (current page and all children, grandchildren...) or a single page in HTML format. You also have the choice to export as one HTML page containing all published wiki pages (such a page may become very large and is then hard to open in a web browser) or as set of HTML pages, one for each wiki page plus an index-page for the table of contents if you set so.

You can also use "Other Export" to show a dialog to set more precisely what to export, whereto and in which format. See [WikiExport].

++ Print
Start print dialog for a plain text print of some or all wiki pages. See [Printing].

++ Open trashcan
Show list of items stored to the trashcan of the wiki and allow to restore or finally delete them.

++ Properties
Shows internal name of database backend (may be needed for support requests) and the number of wiki pages in the wiki.

++ Maintenance
These items are only needed in rare cases. They allow to update the whole wiki in the foreground or as background task and to cope with some errors which may happen. See [WikiMaintenance].

++ Exit
Nothing surprising.

