+ Table Formatting

A table is enclosed in <<| and >> tags which must be alone on a line as for format escaping tags.
Each line with text is a table row, cells are separated by '|'. A table cell can contain wiki word links, bold and italic text. Tables show up properly only in preview mode.

Example (switch between editor and preview to compare how these examples are written and how they look like):

<<|
ScratchPad| This is| *a table*
with two| rows and| three columns delimited by \| and \
                                                    with two lines in a cell
>>


++ Table appendix

To use tabulators instead of vertical bar | as cell delimiters, use <<|t to start the table:

<<|t
ScratchPad	This is	*a table*
with two	rows and	three columns delimited by tabs (not |) and \
                                                    with two lines in a cell
>>

If you want a particular style (see [Cascading style sheets]) for a table, start it with

<<|sStylename
styled
>>

where "Stylename" can be replaced by the name of a style you defined in one of the CSS files described in [Cascading style sheets].

You can also combine this with the tabulator option:

<<|sStylename;t
styled	and tab separated
>>


++ Cell appendix

You can also format a single cell in a similar way. If the first non-whitespace character in a cell is a semicolon, you can append some format options (separated by further semicolons). The appendix ends with a space.

The format option can be a single code character possibly followed directly by some nearer specification.

For some settings the format option can also be a keyword followed by colon or equal sign possibly followed by some nearer specification.

The following code characters are defined:

    s sets CSS stylename for the cell
    A control text alignment by the following character:
        l left
        c horizontally centered
        r right
        t top
        m vertically middle
        b bottom
      You can use one horizontal and one vertical alignment in
      the same appendix but not in the same format option
      (right: "Ar;Ab", wrong: "Arb")

The following keywords are defined:

*class*
Same as code "s"

*align*
Same as code "A"


To start a cell with a plain semicolon, precede it with a backslash: \;


+++ Examples

<<|
simple | ;sStylename thing
>>

The "thing" cell gets CSS style "Stylename".


<<|
;Al left | ;align=b;Ar bottom right | rel://files/testimg.gif>s90x90
wiiiiiiiiiiiideeeeeeeeee | wiiiiiiiiiiiideeeeeeeeee
>>

(the second row is only there to make alignment of first row visible)


<<|
;Al left | ;Ar;sStylename right combined
wiiiiiiiiiiiideeeeeeeeee | wiiiiiiiiiiiideeeeeeeeee
>>


++ Continuation cells

Sometimes you want a cell to span over multiple rows or columns. This is done with a "continuation cell" which only contains a < or ^ to continue the cell to the left or above respectively.

Continuation cells do not support a cell appendix (as they technically do not exist) but the continued cells do.

Example:

<<|
;Ac *Overall title* | <
tall and wide cell | cell 1
^ | wide wide wide cell 2
^ | cell 3
>>


+++ Caveats

If a cell spans multiple rows and columns there may be cells which are taken as continuation cells even if not marked as such. Example:

<<|
Big one | <
^ | Invisible
>>

As "Big one" spans over two row and columns it overlaps "Invisible" which is automatically hidden.


Trying to span a hidden cell over multiple cells gives unexpected results:

<<|
B|<|X
^|I|<
X|^|V
>>

Because "I" is hidden the continuation cells to its right and below are just shown as empty cells and "V" is shown as a regular cell.
