++ Wiki Document Attributes

Wiki pages support "attributes". Attributes serve 2 purposes.  They
allow you to index your data by attribute, in addition to by wikiword,
and they are used to specify certain special wiki formatting commands.

You can attach attributes to a page like this:

[attribute: value]

Setting an attribute like this makes this document available under the
*Views* node in the tree on the left, under importance/high.  Example
attributes you might want to add to your wiki words might be:

[contact: work]
[contact: private] for wiki contacts, ie JohnDoe
[work-related: true] to mark something as work related
[contact.personal.kids: school] to mark something as personal contact
about school of the kids.

Open the "Views" node in the tree on the left to see how these attributes
become available for reference.

If you have multiple attributes with same key but different value, e.g.
<<
[alias: Foo]
[alias: Bar]
[alias: FooBar]
>>

You can write them as multiple values in a single attribute, separated by semicolon, e.g.
<<
[alias: Foo; Bar; FooBar]
>>

You can also quote the values, if they contain disallowed characters, e.g.
[contact: "Carl [Home]"]

The precise quoting syntax is the same as for [Insertions]#+++# Syntax


+++ Autocompletion

Attributes also support auto completion. Try it:

Place cursor after the m and press CTRL-SPACE
[im


+++ Attribute Based Tree Formatting

There are 4 special attributes you can attach to a page that control
the appearance of the page's node in the tree. These attributes override any global settings (see below): 

icon: name (see TreeIcons)
color: Text color (white, blue, etc., see TreeNodeColors)
bgcolor: Background color
bold: (true or false)

Example:
[icon: lens] changes the icon for this page to a lens.

These attributes can also be written in a todo item. If used there, they control the presentation of the todo entry (below the special "Views" node) instead of the wiki page.

Example:
todo: Show another color [color: orange]



You can also use global attribute properties to change the appearance based on the existence of other properties.

Examples:

[global.importance.high.bold=true]

This means any document in the wiki with an "importance" attribute
that has a value of high will be bold.
[importance: high]
So setting the above attribute is what made this document bold
in the tree.


If the global definition contains the first part(s) of an attribute the appearance is also changed.

Example:

Above we had already defined:
\[contact.personal.kids: school]

The following defines that pages containing attributes beginning with "contact" part have color Indian red:
[global.contact.color: indian red]

But the node isn't colored so because of this more specific definition to use dark orchid for attributes beginning with "contact.personal":
[global.contact.personal.color: dark orchid]


When creating a new wiki some default global attributes are
automatically attached to the root wiki document on the WikiSettings page.


+++ Special Attributes

*priority: 1-5*
The priority setting will set the node text in the tree to
"WikiDocumentAttributes (3)" for example.  It also will affect the
importance setting of the node if "importance" is not already set.

[priority: 3]


*font: font face name*
Change the editor font of a page or the whole wiki.
See WikiFonts for example and details.


*camelCaseWordsEnabled: "true" or "false"*
Control, if on one page or all pages (prefixed with "global") CamelCaseWords should be interpreted as wiki links.

Bracketed words (e.g. [CamelCaseWords] are always seen as links).


*paragraph_mode: "true" or "false"*
Choose if for one or all pages a newline in editor is shown as new line in HTML preview/export (paragraph_mode: false) or is ignored and only an empty line starts a new paragraph (paragraph_mode: true).

This paragraph is shown in
preview differently if you
remove the backslash from the following attribute,
save the page and then switch to preview.

This will be a new paragraph. To make a line break
in paragraph mode, write the HTML tag 'br'.<br>
Now we start again here.

\[paragraph_mode: true]


*alias: other page name*
Set another name under which a page can be linked to.

Example:
To this page can also be linked as WikiDocumentAttribute.
[alias: WikiDocumentAttribute]


*import_scripts: page to import scripts from*
See InlinePythonEval.


*child_sort_order: order how to sort child nodes in the tree*
Possible values are:
    * ascending: Sort alphabetically ascending
    * descending: Sort alphabetically descending
    * mod_oldest: Sort by modification date, oldest first
    * mod_newest: Sort by modification date, newest first
    * unsorted: Make no attempt to sort (fastest)
    * natural: Sort in order of appearance of the words on the page (may not always work)

You can also use the attribute global.child_sort_order to control the default for the wiki (without this attribute "ascending" is used)


*tree_position: Order number for position in subtree*
Gives a position number where to place a particular word in the tree relative to its siblings. 1 places it at the top, 2 at the second-top and so-on (if place is occupied by another word with same position, it is placed as near as possible). A high value like e.g. 10000 places it at the bottom.

Be aware that a word may have multiple parents, can therefore appear multiple times in the tree and will each time try to place itself at the given position.


*export: Export this page*
Control if the page containing this attribute should be exported. Only possible value is "false".
The HTML exporter respects this attribute, others, like the multipage text exporter, do not.


*template: page which content should be used as template*
See [Templates]


*template_head: "auto" or "manual"*
Choose if a new page created from a template should take the heading from the template or should automatically create a new one.
See [Templates]


*pagetype: type of the page*
Controls some behavior of the editor.

Currently only type "form" is supported (see [FormPages] for details).


*language: language code*
Controls language of a page or the wiki (with "global." prepended) for [SpellChecking].


*wrap: number of characters*
Specifies the number of characters after which a text should be wrapped when using menu item "Format"->"Rewrap Text"

*wrap_type: "word" or "char"*
Set if the automatic word wrap in editor and the "Rewrap Text" feature should wrap by words or should just before the first character no longer fitting on a line. The latter is mainly useful for Asian languages. The attribute can be prefixed with "global." to apply to all pages of the wiki.

If attribute is not set the default is taken from option "Wrap by", see [OptionsDialog#*Wrap by*].


*html.linkcolor*
Specify the color of a link in preview/HTML export with a numeric HTML color (e.g. "#000000" for black).

*html.alinkcolor*
Color of a link while hovering over it with the mouse or while mouse is pressed (depends on browser). Doesn't work for internal preview.

*html.vlinkcolor*
Color of an already visited link. Doesn't work for internal preview.

*html.textcolor*
Color of normal text.

*html.bgcolor*
Color of background.

*html.bgimage*
Link (URL) to a background image. Doesn't work for internal preview.


*auto_link*
Allow recognition of non-camelcase wiki words in normal text (without brackets). Supported values:

    * off: Switch off recognition
    * relax: Recognition is case-insensitive and maps arbitrary
      non alpha-numeric characters in text to white spaces in the
      wiki word.

When active, e.g. text "multipage text, format" is recognized as wikiword [Multipage text format].

You can also use "global.auto_link" to set the option for the whole wiki.


*view_pane*
Controls which pane should be shown when a page is opened:

    * off: Don't change pane
    * editor: Show editor pane
    * preview: Show preview pane

You can also use "global.view_pane".


*parent*
Define the "canonical parent" of a page. This means that in the list of parent nodes of a page (menu "Navigate"->"Go to Parent") the canonical parent is selected by default and if you go to a page the tree selects the entry which is placed under the canonical parent (if possible).


*short_hint*
If you place the mouse pointer over the wiki link to a page which contains this attribute, the value of the attribute is shown as a tooltip. E.g. place the mouse pointer over this link and let it rest one moment:
    ShortHintAttribute


*global.graph.relation.exclude*
*global.graph.relation.include*
See WikiStructureGraphs.


+++ Error checking

The content of a page is checked on saving for logical errors in some of the special attributes. There is a log window below the editor (normally hidden) which shows error messages if something is wrong.

Currently it checks the attributes alias, color, icon and bold. The presentation attributes inside todo items are not checked.

The log window normally automatically pops up if new messages arrive and automatically hides when there are no more messages (both can be switched off in configuration dialog.

To test the error checking, remove the backslash on the following line and save the page:

\[icon: doesntexist]

Double clicking a message brings the editor to the offending attribute. Position may be a bit off if page was modified after saving.


[tree_position: 6]
